CRACKING
the

CODING INTERVIEW

189 PROGRAMMING QUESTIONS & SOLUTIONS

CRACKING
the

CODING INTERVIEW
6TH EDITION

Aso sy GayLe LAAKMANN McDoweLL
CRACKING THE PM INTERVIEW
How To Lanb a Propuct MANAGER Jos IN TECHNOLOGY

CRACKING THE TECH CAREER
INSIDER ADVICE ON LANDING A JoB AT GoocLe, Microsort, APPLE, OR ANY Top TECH COMPANY

CRACKING
the

CODING INTERVIEW
6th Edition
189 Programming Questions and Solutions

GAYLE LAAKMANN MCDOWELL
Founder and CEO, CareerCup.com

CareerCup, LLC
Palo Alto, CA

CRACKING THE CODING INTERVIEW, SIXTH EDITION
Copyright © 2015 by CareerCup.
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced in any form by any electronic or me-

chanical means, including information storage and retrieval systems, without permission in writing
from the author or publisher, except by a reviewer who may quote brief passages in a review.
Published by CareerCup, LLC, Palo Alto, CA. Compiled Feb 10, 2016.
For more information, contact support@careercup.com.

978-0-9847828-5-7 (ISBN 13)

For Davis and Tobin,

and all the things that bring us joy in life.

Introduction
Introduction,
I.

2... 6. cee

ce

ee

ew ee

Thelnterview Process .. 0... 0... ce ccc
VALVE

oo MMos Boo oe Yo nn

Mc

MAL

eee tweet eee ee eee eee eee e ences 2

ee

ee eee

tb

ee

How Questions are Selected 2... 6...
WR AIRC ANVe . 1...

Il.

lod UR

.

tee ee eee ete eee ee eens 4
ee

ee

ee 4

eee nee

. . ) le ty a ee

TS. ne

eee

e ene 6

a al. Ball we

Frequently Asked Questions .. 2.2.0... 00000

ee

Behind the Scenes.

we ew eee eee ewer ewer reer eee

2... 2...

The Microsoft Interview...

ec ce

ce ee

7

eee eens 7
eee 8

2... ee
eee eee 9

The Amazon Interview...

....... 2...

ce

eee tee eee

ee eee eee eens

10

The Google Interview .......0. 2.0. 2 eee 10
The Apple Interview . 0... 0.

The FacebookInterview..

te

eee

Special Situations.

2... 1. cc

Experienced Candidates...
Testers and SDETS....

eee

. 2... 0.

0.

0.

Dev Lead and Managers...

be

ee

ee
ee

eee

ee

ak

ee

eee

1... 2. 2c

> Ue N. ah. Neen. Moles

eee

13

ce ew ee wee ee eee we eee ee eee eens 15

Product (and Program) Management ... 1.0.0... -.0 0

Staviuygs)

11

1... 0.00 eee
eee eee i

The PalantirInterview .. 0... 0...

Ill,

eee

eee eee

ee ee ee ee ee ae

es)

ee ee eens 16

ee

ee

eG Melee. ML. boa. . la 2.

Acquisitions and Acquihires . 0.0... 2

eee 15

eee

eee 17

AGERE. Jk fl.

18

ee nee eee

19

For Interviewers 2... 0 ee 21

IV.

Before the Interview .. 2... .
Getting the Right Experience...
Writing

ee ee eee eee ee ee eee eens 26

. 2.2... 22

0... 6

Behavioral Questions

ee

ee

ee

. 2.2.2.2... 2 cee ce

Interview PreparationGrid .. 2.2.2.2.
Know Your Technical Projects...

ee 26

So, tell me about yourself...
(BiQi@Scmcusmcmsmsmeme

AiAnalOGivems

ee

ee

eee

30

eww ww we wee ee ec eee ere serene ccce 32

2 ee
eee 32

2.0...

Responding to Behavioral Questions...

VES

cc

aGreat Resume .. 0... ee
ee eee 27

Preparation Map...
V.

cc ce

ce eee
eens SIE,

22... 0. eee 34

. 0. eee 36

apes ops amelie, = nell eme fuer © © 2) |= Je nome) Somenemsmonsmememomersmems men

m.. . am fe meee

El ie epee 2 2 °°

38

ep ieselwiniiw: Bur Sm. . oer liees . (ican fiber oc as. as. = 38

Time Complexity...6.0.0...
ee
eee eee ee 38

Space Complexity.

2.0...

ce

ee

eee

ete

eee 40

Drop the Constants... 6.2...
ee ee ee ees 4]
Drop the Non-DominantTerms .. 2.2.2.0... 0.0

vi

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

ee

eee eee 42

introduction
Multi-Part Algorithms: Add vs. Multiply
........0.0.
0.0... cee
eee ee
ee
eee eee 42

eich
c ete <a: 43

Vil.

Log NRUIDEIRAES,

eo te ee ee gels ee dees SS nce oe

RECuUrsVeRUIMEINNES..

osu. wo. cee ee se

ee ee ob

oe be Melee Race

eee se

ee GO

Examples and Exercises .. 1...

ee

Technical Questions ..... 2... 2. cee eee ee

ee

Rote Are pare

7 5... para

What You Need To Know.

atm OE oe =. SE

ee ee

RE,

MMe

44

eee). 44

ene
ee ee

eset

es

ee ee eee ne 45

eee eee eee 60
eee

re

es. 60

. 2...
ee ee eee eee 60

Walking Througha Problem ... 2.2.0.0... 0... cece
Optimize
& Solve Technique #1:LookforBUD......

eee

eee

20.0.0... 0. 2c cc ce

Optimize & Solve Technique #2: DIY (Do It Yourself)...

eens 62
ee

ees 67

2.2... 2.00.0.
eee eee 69

Optimize & Solve Technique #3: Simplify and Generalize ............. 20.0202. 71
Optimize & Solve Technique #4: Base Case and Build...

2... 2.2...

Optimize & Solve Technique #5: Data Structure Brainstorm.
Best Conceivable Runtime (BCR)...

Handling Incorrect Answers

ee ee 71

.........0..0. 002.0202

. 2... 0.

.. 0... 0.

ce

ee

ee

ee

e eee 72
ee

ee 72

cc eee
eee ee 76

When You've Heard a Question Before...

6... ee
eens 76

The “Perfect” Language for Interviews...
......0....
0.
eee
eee eee 76
What Good Coding Looks Like.

2... 1...

Don't Give Up! 6.

ee

ee

Vill. The Offerand Beyond ........... 2.22. eee ce ee

Handling Offers and Rejection.

eee

ee ee

een eens 77
eee

eee eee 81

te ee et een ee tenes 82

. 6... 6.

eee ee eee 82

Evalivatlimeaher@ifen, .. nn. sd cosyeonme.-sns she + Sesmenensy ama w+ poweeen peng ena deeeel.Qaee Stereyiel . .
BOGOR or. co. 2

SD

i

Ol eee

a

ne

. 83

Reece . ONE Gl. «los + uncial: ited bites . . +.

ee

Ie

Se

ee

ee

84

ee 85

Interview Questions ....... ccc ce eee ee rrr rc cer cece ee eee eee ere c ccc ees 87
Data Seu
Gti hes ages

eal)

28 leh e, .- elt o

Chapter] | Arrays aneiStrings ..
AinelaNGa las: er. tia

ne com. -

Chapter 2 fLinkedists.

6. 0. ce

in Nols

ArrayList & Resizable Arrays...
SERMGRNIGER.

ie oe Sle, «0 ciel) ene,» aillangellcnc lS

oy.

oe ee ee

ee

Wie Oe Wee

be

eae

al,

.

IL aL.

eee oe lb

ele

88

ee 88

a . .

88

0... eee
tee ene 89
as

29. 250

eee
i.

eee a eee... 89

-, os .

i

ies

Creadrgi@ ake List.

% 2. Sonss.cueus mamas mada cas «pa

Deleting aNode froma

Singly Linked List...

The “Runner” Technique

0.0.

ReGuisive PrODIAMS =. 2.

acl. aa

2 Sega

0...

ea

eee ee . 92

ies. ... 92

0 ene
e eee 93
ee eee eee 93

onan. .

Guha

ates .

eel. a... 93

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

Vil

Introduction
Chapter 3| Stacks and Queues... 0...
te
eee ee 96
Implementing a Stack...
Implementing

6...

GQueUC.

2...

Chapter 4| Trees and Graphs...

ee

ee

ee

ee

ee

eee eee 96

eee eter

eee nee 97

1... ne
ene 100

WW DCSWOMGCCS aes EUS

oa ai MaENEW

Binapy<lcedlr@versalia,

Sn.e..ne wl.

© A ene elke OS DINAN.
tie, &. 0. «

eres

. 8.0.1.

GGbce - come Deca

.k 0. pol ss

eee Me en

eee

eee. .
ol ee

Graph SCORE .tc A. . saclmces (licen 1 Se

Concepts and Algorithms.

......... 2...

eee eee e eens 103

ee. 105

See

ee. 105

eee FR
ee
ere.
ee. 107

eee cee eee

Chapter 5|Bit Manipulation ......... 0...

100
ele. 103

ee

Poe on

I

Me Oe

Leen

Binary Heaps (Min-Heapsand Max-Heaps) ........ 0. ccc

Tries (RrenxTrees)m.

eee

eee teeter ee

ce

ee

eee 112

eet teens 112

Bit Manipulation By Hand... 0.66
ee
ee eee eee eee 112
BiBFaGisainGTHiGhs)<

ru

ol a

oe

Two's Complement and Negative Numbers...

ee Se

ELL

ee

....0. 00.0

Se.

ee

eee

Arithmetic vs. Logical Right Shift.
0.0.0.0...
0 00 oc
cece cee A
Common Bit Tasks: Getting and Setting...

Chapter6|Math and Logic Puzzles...
PYIRAOINMMIBErS Un. con sly
PRAISING

acme: wm.

0.0...

cc

eae 113

a Lee 113

te

etn

eee eee 114

2.2... 0.
eee nee ene 117

gel caalliew -\eametom oe Jem 2

icicle

ec

Eee 112

OE. lcs olsen

SHAMAN GTB
AGS oey Somme orm pepe

bln! ~

ee

ee, SR. 117

Bl). aalonca ucla I. IR ool, ky 0

aces. 119

Fatima

ee

» . 08

ee

fll GRRL! 121

Develop Rules and Patterns . 00. 6 eee
ee ee eee ene 121
WoRsFEGSecSRIMENG NW) Pale ce. cle. E

has, «|.

Algorithm Approaches ..... 0.0

cc

g WER,

eee we Seeger

ee

eee

Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design .......... 0.
HOW

MIN OGE Datei”! Maskale Sela

Design RAtCRAS.y

cw

@ ) pec!

ene

eens 122

eee eee eee 125

ace SE =PS | + slay ole. ofella

Eee: EE.

ee

Ly, 122

- Se

+ cee

ae
See

125
ee

ee 126

Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
............
0.00
cee eee eee 130
How toApprodach.

2.6. ee
eee ne ene n eens 130

Recursive vs. Iterative Solutions .. 0.20.0...
ee ee ee eee 131
Dynamic Programming & Memoization.

. 0...
ee ce ee ee eee 131

Chapter
9 | System Design and Scalability... 2.0...
eee 137
Handling the QUESTIONS 2.0...
ee
eee eee eee ens 137
Design: Step-By-Sfep.

NS. .. .

JS. pe Se.

ee

ee... 138

Algorithms that Scale:Step-By-Step 0.0... eee
ee eee eens 139
KhayComeepis...

vill

.

1... HL

EL

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

oe . Se

SV als

a, .

140

Introduction
COMSIG2TOMONS,

ie

os tennessee

Seen

a: ol

aa

ae. 142

There is no “perfect” System... 0. eee
ee eee eee 143
Examplereioblain.

a2 i4: a. pen m= 2a: mb

Chapter 10 | Sorting and Searching...

es SGN Re

Em + eon. |

© 143

2.2.2. ee
ee eee 146

Common Sorting Algorithms . 0. ee
ee eee ete eee eens 146
Searching AIGOTIthMS.

Charters | NestimG@s

6.

i

ee

«=. a. - ee ped mea eee + + +

What the interviewer Is Looking For...
Testing a Real World Object...

ee

Gee) dee

ee ope

eee eee 149

heel

ee. 152

10. occ ce
eee teen nae 152

1...

ee teeta 153

Testing a Piece of Software 2... ene
eee e tenes 154
Testing

FUNCTION ©...

ne

ee

ee eee

eee 155

Troubleshooting Questions ... 6. nent
eee 156
Knowledge Based..............06. seme,

Chapter 12,

|"Cam@ Gt

sells o oo [olip: SemR Stacie) SMM. steed aoc 158

ccepslaly i coun ¢ gislls pepenallors ane - = auczee al) git! s\gewelllegiie!| Agere tee tal. . 158

Chasse andiigheritanGe: «5%

aie ate Wile Doe

ao

WT

Da

Constructors and DestructOrs. . 6...

ee

Vikitenl -FeimcirOIa =.) ~ « <y> cea

thal

themes ame we) mcueye Gone GG

Een

Virttval DestrUchOry i025 Buca. a JE Wan aeey oceema. =.» EAGLE

celle Je 158
ee

- #

eee eee

Ghee tuelleeeslc

Ge. Glcp . tee!”

De FARE MAN
T OSS, Ponce cole W opesy i epar vey Foemdelltnene es) +pensnen- (eusuiepeeey cies apersezeces eos
Operatar Overlodding...

0a

oe ee

Pointers and References . 1.0...

TEamplGheSs: ae meee

ole be

ie

el ces ee

cc

mage

el

ene

bows ace. lean - ) game

a

cle

ees 159

eet 160

steel 161

salle haw

ene

ea

159

eel, 161

e nee enee 162

eh

eral: 163

Chapter
13 |Java.... en
ee ee ee eee ee ee 165
How tOApprodch.

2...

ee

eee eee ee eee

Overloading vs. Overriding ..... 0... 0c

te

eee

eee

eens 165

ee eee 165

Collection Framework. 2.0
ee nee
eee eee 166

Chapiter:).4,|(Databases:

9. 00. lol. lame flees -nnpa

SQL Syntax and Variations.

omens BE ERE

6...

0. 0c

SQL Statements...

bargeDatdbuseibesigns...

| oe eens « 169

6.0... teen
enna 169

Denormalized vs. Normalized Databases.

Small Database DeSign.

cetera

te

ee

06.

ee

eens 169
eee eee 169

ee tet eet

a. seaagg wl. Ga Hi eA

Sy ee

we wg ae Slee

Chapter 15| Threads and Locks ..... 0.0...

e eee 171

wey Seay

172

nes 174

Threads inJavd . 0...
nee nee en eee eens 174
Synchronization and LOCKS 6... 0

Deadlocks and Deadlock Prevention.

cc

ce

ee

ee

........ 0. ccc

be eee

eee ee eee

ee

eee

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

eee 176

eee 179

1X

Introduction

Additional Review Problems...

2... 0...

cee ec

Chapter 16 | Moderate................. re

Greeters isa rde. ce
Fe

ae, Pg

ee ee eee cee eee ee ee eee 181

oe ik 181

hw

eee, Siar

em

ES, MH 186

SOMOS wesnre.enepess aw cts + fons) «aye «Tone, eo ee! bY OSL wr ee ese

es ale ere. 191

Data StruGLWasl

Wen

. Seen. .

Jee .emaeh el

6 .

wee... aw. ols. ee:

ee.

192

Concepts and Algorithms... 6...
eee ee ne 276
Knowledge Based...

1...

ee ee

ee

eet

eee 422

Additional Review Problems
..........0.0
000 cee
ee
eee eee 462
Xiu

Ardvaneed To pmhes ... 5.2. ee. ed 1
WS SFA HF

sie cee bw tle i eee

UR

panics tpeseremeais qemu) el hs” queas oo e+ «(Bye oo sm on « en qeoee

SE

EU

ee

Ls

628

LAL

Kopologiealisogtty.«

. . ger miecqeee Bee oe eke Wd

os. eee. .

Dijkstra’s Algorfthm.

.. 0...

a. eee 633

Hash'Talele-Collisiom REsOluWOR..
Rabin-Karp SubstringSearch.

ee

ix 2b cor wasps os ee ee

.. 0...

AVIS ESS Wh Bip Ba

Ee Mill Be ee Fel

RedEBlackKIMGGs. me. .u.%

cn eee 2. mn.

M@PREGUGE...

on... 5. op. cee etter s

Additional Studying

=

eee...

632

ele

636

ee

eee nes 636

meade - ppemntone ll

geen | we. . a

me.

Se. PTR

een llice Vet ane one «je alti

lace Uh. 9

| 637

oe... 639

SUN

Mk 642

.. 10... 0... ees 644

MLN oGod
@ Bier
yi cys
PSMA PSE

Pew ee

ee

629

(slleel en. pan ets

Jeemay cee) Hel. je. Ss eae ee eT.

ES secs, cts yg tee cp ete es

TreeNode (BinarySearchTree).

cere

hentia pond cleaned spe pepe

ie ge. 645
ww 646

2... eee
eee 647

LinkedListNode (Linked List)...
ee eens 649
Trie & TrieNode
OT Pines,

2...
ee
ee ee
eee eee ee 649

De. OA ares dnl oh Uleeweed ll. GLAM. olin case

Hints for Data Structures...

0.

Hints for Concepts and Algorithms...

as . paige

AMAL, 5 652

ete

ene ee ee ene 653

0... 0

Hints for Knowledge-Based Questions...

0...

ee

eee

nae 662

1.2... 0... eee
nes 676

Hints for Additional Review Problems ... 2.0.0.0... ce
XIV. About the Author...

eee

eee

ee 679

ee ee ee eee weet eee eee ee eee eee 696

Join us at www.CrackingTheCodinginterview.com to download the complete solutions,
contribute or view solutions in other programming languages, discuss problems from this book
with other readers, ask questions, report issues, view this book’s errata, and seek additional advice.

X

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Foreword

Dear Reader,

Let's get the introductions out of the way.
{am nota

recruiter.

!am a software engineer. And as such, ! know what it’s like to be asked to whip up bril-

liant algorithms on the spot and then write flawless code on a whiteboard. | know because !’ve been asked
to do the same thing—in interviews at Google, Microsoft, Apple, and Amazon, among other companies.

| also know because (‘ve been on the other side of the table, asking candidates to do this. I've combed

through stacks of resumes to find the engineers who | thought might be able to actually pass these interviews. I've evaluated them as they solved—or tried to solve—challenging questions. And I've debated in

Google's Hiring Committee whether a candidate did well enough to merit an offer. | understand the full
hiring circle because I’ve been through it all, repeatedly.

And you, reader, are probably preparing for an interview, perhaps tomorrow, next week, or next year.

|am

here to help you solidify your understanding of computer science fundamentals and then learn how to
apply those fundamentals to crack the coding interview.
The 6th edition of Cracking the Coding Interview updates the 5th edition with 70% more content: additional

questions, revised solutions, new chapter introductions, more algorithm strategies, hints for all problems,
and other content. Be sure to check out our website, CrackingI heCodinglnterview.com, to connect with
other candidates and discover new resources.

I'm excited for you and for the skills you are going to develop. Thorough preparation will give you a wide
range of technical and communication skills. It will be well worth it, no matter where the effort takes you!
| encourage you to read these introductory chapters carefully. They contain important insight that just
might make the difference between a“hire” and a“no hire.’
And remember— interviews are hard! In my years of interviewing at Google, | saw some interviewers
ask “easy” questions while others ask harder questions. But you know what? Getting the easy questions

doesn’t make it any easier to get the offer. Receiving an offer is not about solving questions flawlessly (very
few candidates do!). Rather, it is about answering questions better than other candidates. So don't stress out
when you get a tricky question—everyone else probably thought it was hard too. It’s okay to not be flaw-

less.
Study hard, practice—and good luck!
Gayle L. McDowell
Founder/CEO, CareerCup.com

Author of Cracking the PM Interview and Cracking the Tech Career

CrackingTheCoding|Interview.com | 6th Edition

1

Introduction
Something's Wrong
We walked out of the hiring meeting frustrated—again. Of the ten candidates we reviewed that day, none

would receive offers. Were we being too harsh, we wondered?
|, in particular, was disappointed. We had rejected one of my candidates. A former student. One | had
referred. He had a 3.73 GPA from the University of Washington, one of the best computer science schools
in the world, and had done extensive work on open-source projects. He was energetic. He was creative. He
was sharp. He worked hard. He was a true geek in all the best ways.

But | had to agree with the rest of the committee: the data wasn't there. Even if my emphatic recommendation could sway them to reconsider, he would surely get rejected in the later stages of the hiring process.
There were just too many red flags.
Although he was quite intelligent, he struggled to solve the interview problems. Most successful candi-

dates could fly through the first question, which was a twist on a well-known problem, but he had trouble
developing an algorithm. When he came up with one, he failed to consider solutions that optimized for
other scenarios, Finally, when he began coding, he flew through the code with an initial solution, but it
was riddled with mistakes that he failed to catch. Though he wasn't the worst candidate we'd seen by any
measure, he was far from meeting the “bar.” Rejected.
When he asked for feedback over the phone a couple of weeks later, | struggled with what to tell him. Be

smarter? No, | knew he was brilliant. Be a better coder? No, his skills were on par with some of the best I'd
seen.

Like many motivated candidates, he had prepared extensively. He had read K&R's classic C book, and he'd
reviewed CLRS' famous algorithms textbook. He could describe in detail the myriad of ways of balancing a
tree, and he could do things in C that no sane programmer should ever want to do.
1 had to tell him the unfortunate truth: those books aren’t enough. Academic books prepare you for fancy
research, and they will probably make you a better software engineer, but they’re not sufficient for interviews. Why? I'll give you a hint: Your interviewers haven't seen red-black trees since they were in school

either.
To crack the coding interview, you need to prepare with rea/ interview questions. You must practice on
real problems and learn their patterns. It's about developing a fresh algorithm, not memorizing existing
problems.

Cracking the Coding Interview is the result of my first-hand experience interviewing at top companies and
later coaching candidates through these interviews. It is the result of hundreds of conversations with candi-

dates. It is the result of the thousands of questions contributed by candidates and interviewers. And it’s the
result of seeing so many interview questions from so many firms. Enclosed in this book are 189 of the best
interview questions, selected from thousands of potential problems.

My Approach
The focus of Cracking the Coding Interview is algorithm, coding, and design questions. Why? Because
while you can and will be asked behavioral questions, the answers will be as varied as your resume. Like-

wise, while many firms will ask so-called “trivia” questions (e.g.,”What is a virtual function?”), the skills developed through practicing these questions are limited to very specific bits of knowledge.
The book will briefly
touch on some ofthese questions to show you what they're like, but | have chosen to allocate space to areas
where there’s more to learn.

2

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Introduction

My Passion

Teaching is my passion. | love helping people understand new concepts and giving them tools to help them
excel in their passions.

My first official experience teaching was in college at the University of Pennsylvania, when i became a
teaching assistant for an undergraduate computer science course during my second year. | went on to TA

for several other courses, and | eventually launched my own computer science course there, focused on
hands-on skills.
As an engineer at Google, training and mentoring new engineers were some of the things | enjoyed most. |

even used my “20% time” to teach two computer science courses at the University of Washington.
Now, years later, | continue to teach computer science concepts, but this time with the goal of preparing
engineers at startups for their acquisition interviews. I've seen their mistakes and struggles, and I’ve developed techniques and strategies to help them combat those very issues.
Cracking the Coding Interview, Cracking the PM Interview, Cracking the Tech Career, and CareerCup
reflect my passion for teaching. Even now, you can often find me “hanging out” at CareerCup.com, helping

users who stop by for assistance.
Join us.

Gayle L. McDowell

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com| 6th Edition

3

The Interview Process

At most of the top tech companies (and many other companies), algorithm and coding problems form the
largest component of the interview process. Think of these as problem-solving questions. The interviewer

is looking to evaluate your ability to solve algorithmic problems you haven't seen before.
Very often, you might get through only one question in an interview. Forty-five minutes is not a long time,

and it’s difficult to get through several different questions in that time frame.
You should do your best to talk out loud throughout the problem and explain your thought process. Your
interviewer might jump in sometimes to help you; let them. It's normal and doesn't really mean that you're

doing poorly. (That said, of course not needing hints is even better.)
At the end of the interview, the interviewer will walk away with a gut feel for how you did. A numeric score
might be assigned to your performance, but it’s not actually a quantitative assessment. There’s no chart that

says how many points you get for different things. It just doesn’t work like that.
Rather, your interviewer will make an assessment of your performance, usually based on the following:
-

Analytical skills: Did you need much help solving the problem? How optimal was your solution? How

long did it take you to arrive at a solution? If you had to design/architect a new solution, did you struc-

ture the problem well and think through the tradeoffs of different decisions?
+

Coding skills: Were you able to successfully translate your algorithm to reasonable code? Was it clean
and well-organized? Did you think about potential errors? Did you use good style?

«

Technical knowledge / Computer Science fundamentals: Do you have a strong foundation in computer
science and the relevant technologies?

*

Experience: Have you made good technical decisions in the past? Have you built interesting, challenging
projects? Have you shown drive, initiative, and other important factors?

-

Culture fit / Communication skills: Do your personality and values fit with the company and team? Did
you communicate well with your interviewer?

The weighting of these areas will vary based on the question, interviewer, role, team, and company. In a
standard algorithm question, it might be almost entirely the first three of those.

> Why?
This is one of the most common questions candidates have as they get started with this process. Why do
things this way? After all,
1.

Lots of great candidates don't do well in these sorts of interviews.

4

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

I | The Interview Process
2. You could look up the answer if it did ever come up.
3. You rarely have to use data structures such as binary search trees in the real world. If you did need to,
you could surely learn it.

4. Whiteboard coding is an artificial environment. You would never code on the whiteboard in the real
world, obviously.

These complaints aren't without merit. in fact, | agree with all of them, at least in part.
At the same time, there is reason to do things this way for some—not all—positions. It’s not important that
you agree with this logic, but it is a good idea to understand why these questions are being asked. {t helps
offer a little insight into the interviewer's mindset.

False negatives are acceptable.

This is sad (and frustrating for candidates), but true.
From the company’s perspective, it’s actually acceptable that some good candidates are rejected. The
company is out to build a great set of employees.
They can accept that they miss out on some good people.
They‘d prefer not to, of course, as it raises their recruiting costs. It is an acceptable tradeoff, though, provided
they can still hire enough good people.

They're far more concerned with false positives: people who do well in an interview but are not in fact very
good.

Problem-solving skills are valuable.

If you're able to work through several hard problems (with some help, perhaps), you’re probably pretty
good at developing optimal algorithms. You’re smart.
Smart people tend to do good things, and that’s valuable at a company. it’s not the only thing that matters,

of course, but it is a really good thing.

Basic data structure and algorithm knowledge is useful.

Many interviewers would argue that basic computer science knowledge is, in fact, useful. Understanding
trees, graphs, lists, sorting, and other knowledge does come up periodically. When it does, it’s really valuable.

Could you learn it as needed? Sure. But it’s very difficult to know that you should use a binary search tree if
you don't know of its existence. And if you do know of its existence, then you pretty much know the basics.
Other interviewers justify the reliance on data structures and algorithms by arguing that it’s a good “proxy.”
Even if the skills wouldn't be that hard to learn on their own, they say it’s reasonably well-correlated with
being a good developer. It means that you've either gone through a computer science program (in which

case you've learned and retained a reasonably broad set of technical knowledge) or learned this stuff on
your own. Either way, it’s a good sign.
There’s another reason why data structure and algorithm knowledge comes up: because it's hard to ask

problem-solving questions that don’t involve them. It turns out that the vast majority of problem-solving
questions involve some of these basics. When enough candidates know these basics, it’s easy to get into a
pattern of asking questions with them.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

5

| The Interview Process
Whiteboards let you focus on what matters.
It's absolutely true that you'd struggle with writing perfect code on a whiteboard. Fortunately, your interviewer doesn't expect that. Virtually everyone has some bugs or minor syntactical errors.

The nice thing about a whiteboard is that, in some ways, you can focus on the big picture. You don't have a

compiler, so you don’t need to make your code compile. You don’t need to write the entire class definition
and boilerplate code. You get to focus on the interesting, “meaty” parts of the code: the function that the
question is really all about.
That's not to say that you should just write pseudocode or that correctness doesnt matter. Most interviewers aren't okay with pseudocode, and fewer errors are better.
Whiteboards also tend to encourage candidates to speak more and explain their thought process. When a
candidate is given a computer, their communication drops substantially.

But it’s not for everyone or every company or every situation.

The above sections are intended to help you understand the thought process of the company.
My personal thoughts? For the right situation, when done well, it’s a reasonable judge of someone's
problem-solving skills, in that people who do well tend to be fairly smart.
However, it’s often not done very well. You have bad interviewers or people who just ask bad questions.
It's also not appropriate for all companies. Some companies should value someone's prior experience more
or need skills with particular technologies. These sorts of questions don’t put much weight on that.
it also won't measure someone's work ethic or ability to focus. Then again, almost no interview process can
really evaluate this.

This is not a perfect process by any means, but what is? All interview processes have their downsides.
‘il leave you with this: it is what it is, so let’s do the best we can with it.

> How Questions are Selected
Candidates frequently ask what the “recent” interview questions are at a specific company. Just asking this
question reveals a fundamental misunderstanding of where questions come from.
At the vast majority of companies, there are no lists of what interviewers should ask. Rather, each interviewer selects their own questions.

Since it’s somewhat of a “free for all” as far as questions, there’s nothing that makes a question a “recent
Google interview question” other than the fact that some interviewer who happens to work at Google just
so happened to ask that question recently.

The questions asked this year at Google do not really differ from those asked three years ago. In fact, the
questions asked at Google generally don't differ from those asked at similar companies (Amazon, Facebook,
etc.).

There are some broad differences across companies. Some companies focus on algorithms (often with some
system design worked in), and others really like knowledge-based questions. But within a given category

of question, there is little that makes it “belong” to one company instead of another. A Google algorithm
question is essentially the same as a Facebook algorithm question.

6

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

| The Interview Process
> It’s All Relative

If there’s no grading system, how are you evaluated? How does an interviewer know what to expect of you?
Good question.
The answer actually makes a lot of sense once you understand it.

Interviewers assess you relative to other candidates on that same question by the same interviewer. It’s a
relative comparison.
For example, Suppose you came up with some cool new brainteaser or math problem. You ask your friend
Alex the question, and it takes him 30 minutes to solve it. You ask Bella and she takes 50 minutes. Chris is

never able to solve it. Dexter takes 15 minutes, but you had to give him some major hints and he probably
would have taken far longer without them. Ellie takes 10—and comes up with an alternate approach you
werent even aware of. Fred takes 35 minutes.
Youll walk away saying, “Wow, Ellie did really well. I'll bet she’s pretty good at math.” (Of course, she could
have just gotten lucky. And maybe Chris got unlucky. You might ask a few more questions just to really
make sure that it wasn’t good or bad luck.)

Interview questions are much the same way. Your interviewer develops a feel for your performance by
comparing you to other people. it’s not about the candidates she's interviewing that week. It’s about all the
candidates that she’s ever asked this question to.

For this reason, getting a hard question isn’t a bad thing. When

it’s harder for you, it’s harder for everyone. It

doesnt make it any less likely that you'll do well.

> Frequently Asked Questions

| didn’t hear back immediately after my interview. Am | rejected?
No. There are a number of reasons why a company’s decision might be delayed. A very simple explanation

is that one of your interviewers hasnt provided their feedback yet. Very, very few companies have a policy
of not responding to candidates they reject.
If you haven't heard back from a company within 3 - 5 business days after your interview, check in (politely)
with your recruiter.

Can!

re-apply to a company after getting rejected?

Almost always, but you typically have to wait a bit (6 months to a 1 year). Your first bad interview usually

won't affect you too much when you re-interview. Lots of people get rejected from Google or Microsoft and
later get offers from them.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

7

Behind the Scenes

Most companies conduct their interviews in very similar ways. We will offer an overview of how companies
interview and what they’re looking for. This information should guide your interview preparation and your
reactions during and after the interview.
Once you are selected for an interview, you usually go through a screening interview. This is typically

conducted overthe phone. College candidates who attend top schools may have these interviews in-person.
Don't let the name fool you; the “screening” interview often involves coding and algorithms questions, and
the bar can be just as high as it is for in-person interviews. If you’re unsure whether or not the interview will
be technical, ask your recruiting coordinator what position your interviewer holds (or what the interview

might cover). An engineer will usually perform a technical interview.
Many companies have taken advantage of online synchronized document editors, but others will expect
you to write code on paper and read it back over the phone. Some interviewers may even give you “homework"
to solve after you hang up the phoneor just ask you to email them the code you wrote.
You typically do one or two screening interviewers before being brought on-site.
In an on-site interview round, you usually have3 to 6 in-person interviews. One of these is often over lunch.
The lunch interview is usually not technical, and the interviewer may not even submit feedback. This is a
good person to discuss your interests with and to ask about the company culture. Your other interviews will
be mostly technical and will involve a combination of coding, algorithm, design/architecture, and behavioral/experience questions.
The distribution of questions between the above topics varies between companies and even teams due to

company priorities, size, and just pure randomness. Interviewers are often given a good deal of freedom in
their interview questions.

After your interview, your interviewers will provide feedback in some form. In some companies, your interviewers meet together to discuss your performance and come to a decision. In other companies, inter-

viewers submit a recommendation to a hiring manager or hiring committee to make a final decision. In
some companies, interviewers don't even make the decision; their feedback goes to a hiring committee to
make a decision.
Most companies get back after about a week with next steps (offer, rejection, further interviews, or just an

update on the process). Some companies respond much sooner (sometimes same day!) and others take
much longer.
if you have waited more than a week, you should follow up with your recruiter. If your recruiter does not
respond, this does not mean that you are rejected (at least not at any major tech company, and almost any

8

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Il| Behind the Scenes
other company). Let me repeat that again: not responding indicates nothing about your status. The inten-

tion is that all recruiters should tell candidates once a final decision is made.
Delays can and do happen. Follow up with your recruiter if you expect a delay, but be respectful when you
do. Recruiters are just like you, They get busy and forgetful too.

> The Microsoft Interview
Microsoft wants smart people, Geeks. People who are passionate about technology. You probably won't be
tested on the ins and outs of C++ APIs, but you will be expected to write code on the board.
In a typical interview, you'll show up at Microsoft at some time in the morning and fill out initial paper work.
You'll have a short interview with a recruiter who will give you a sample question. Your recruiter is usually

there to prep you, not to grill you on technical questions. If you get asked some basic technical questions,
it may be because your recruiter wants to ease you into the interview so that you're less nervous when the
“real” interview starts.

Be nice to your recruiter. Your recruiter can be your biggest advocate, even pushing to re-interview you if
you stumbled on your first interview. They can fight for you to be hired—or not!
During the day, you'll do four or five interviews, often with two different teams. Unlike many companies,
where you meet your interviewers in a conference room, you'll meet with your Microsoft interviewers in
their office. This is a great time to look around and get a feel for the team culture.
Depending on the team, interviewers may or may not share their feedback on you with the rest of the
interview loop.

When you complete your interviews with a team, you might speak with a hiring manager (often called the
“as app’, short for “as appropriate’). If so, that’s a great sign! It likely means that you passed the interviews
with a particular team. It's now down to the hiring managers decision.

You might get a decision that day, or it might be a week. After one week of no word from HR, send a friendly
email asking for a status update.
If your recruiter isn't very responsive, it's because she’s busy, not because you're being silently rejected.

Definitely Prepare:
“Why do you want to work for Microsoft?”
In this question, Microsoft wants to see that you're passionate about technology. A great answer might be,
“I’ve been using Microsoft software as long as | can remember, and !’m really impressed at how Microsoft
manages to create a product that is universally excellent. For example, I’ve been using Visual Studio recently
to learn game programming, and its APls are excellent.’ Note how this shows a passion for technology!

What's Unique:

You'll only reach the hiring manager if you've done well, so if you do, that’s a great sign!
Additionally, Microsoft tends to give teams more individual control, and the product set is diverse. Experi-

ences can vary substantially across Microsoft since different teams look for different things.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

9

Il | Behind the Scenes
> The Amazon Interview
Amazon's recruiting process typically begins with a phone screen in which a candidate interviews with a

specific team. A small portion of the time, a candidate may have two or more interviews, which can indicate
either that one of their interviewers wasn't convinced or that they are being considered for a different team

or profile. In more unusual cases, such as when a candidate is local or has recently interviewed for a different
position, a candidate may only do one phone screen.
The engineer who interviews you will usually ask you to write simple code via a shared document editor.
They will also often ask a broad set of questions to explore what areas of technology you're familiar with.
Next, you fly to Seattle (or whichever office you're interviewing for) for four or five interviews with one or
two teams that have selected you based on your resume and phone interviews. You will have to code on a
whiteboard, and some interviewers will stress other skills. Interviewers are each assigned a specific area to
probe and may seem very different from each other. They cannot see the other feedback until they have
submitted their own, and they are discouraged from discussing it until the hiring meeting.
The “bar raiser” interviewer is charged with keeping the interview bar high. They attend special training and
willinterview candidates outside their group in order to balance out the group itself. If one interview seems

significantly harder and different, that’s most likely the bar raiser. This person has both significant experience with interviews and veto power in the hiring decision. Remember, though: just because you seem to
be struggling more in this interview doesn't mean you're actually doing worse. Your performance is judged
relative to other candidates; it’s not evaluated on a simple “percent correct” basis.
Once your interviewers have entered their feedback, they will meet to discuss it. They will be the people
making the hiring decision.

While Amazon's recruiters are usually excellent at following up with candidates, occasionally there are
delays. If you haven't heard from Amazon within a week, we recommend a friendly email.

Definitely Prepare:

Amazon cares a lot about scale. Make sure you prepare for scalability questions. You don’t need a background in distributed systems to answer these questions. See our recommendations in the System Design
and Scalability chapter.
Additionally, Amazon tends to ask a lot of questions about object-oriented design. Check out the ObjectOriented Design chapter for sample questions and suggestions.

What's Unique:
The Bar Raiser is brought in from a different team to keep the bar high. You need to impress both this person
and the hiring manager.
Amazon tends to experiment more with its hiring process than other companies do. The process described

here is the typical experience, but due to Amazon's experimentation, it’s not necessarily universal.

> The Google Interview
There are many scary rumors floating around about Google interviews, but they're mostly just that: rumors.

The interview is not terribly different from Microsoft's or Amazon's.

10

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Il] Behind the Scenes
A Google engineer performs the first phone screen, so expect tough technical questions. These questions
may involve coding, sometimes via a shared document. Candidates are typically held to the same standard
and are asked similar questions on phone screens as in on-site interviews.

On your on-site interview, you'll interview with four to six people, one of whom will be a lunch interviewer.
interviewer feedback is kept confidential from the other interviewers, so you can be assured that you enter
each interview with blank slate. Your lunch interviewer doesn’t submit feedback, so this is a great opportu-

nity to ask honest questions.
Interviewers are typically not given specific focuses, and there is no
“structure”
or
“system” as to what you're
asked when. Each interviewer can conduct the interview however she would like.
Written feedback is submitted to a hiring committee (HC) of engineers and managers to make a hire /
no-hire recommendation. Feedback is typically broken down into four categories (Analytical Ability, Coding,

Experience, and Communication) and you are given an overall score from 1.0 to 4.0. The HC usually does not
include any of your interviewers. If it does, it was purely by random chance.
To extend an offer, the HC wants to see at least one interviewer who is an “enthusiastic endorser.’ In other

words, a packet with scores of 3.6, 3.1, 3.1 and 2.6 is better than all 3.1s.
You do not necessarily need to excel in every interview, and your phone screen performance is usually not
a strong factor in the final decision.
If the hiring committee recommends an offer, your packet will go to a compensation committee and then

to the executive management committee. Returning a decision can take several weeks because there are
so many stages and committees.

Definitely Prepare:

As a web-based company, Google cares about how to design a scalable system. So, make sure you prepare
for questions from System Design and Scalability.
Google puts a strong focus on analytical (algorithm) skills, regardless of experience. You should be very well
prepared for these questions, even if you think your prior experience should count for more.

What's Different:
Your interviewers do not make the hiring decision. Rather, they enter feedback which is passed to a hiring

committee. The hiring committee recommends a decision which can be—though rarely is—rejected by
Google executives.

> The Apple Interview
Much like the company itself, Apple's interview process has minimal bureaucracy. The interviewers will be

looking for excellent technical skills, but a passion for the position and the company is also very important.
While it’s not a prerequisite to be a Mac user, you should at least be familiar with the system.
The interview process usually begins with a recruiter phone screen to get a basic sense of your skills,

followed up by a

series of technical phone screens with team members.

Once you're invited on campus, you'll typically be greeted by the recruiter who provides an overview of the
process. You will then have 6-8 interviews with members of the team with which youre interviewing, as well
as key people with whom your team works.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

11

ll | Behind the Scenes
You can expect a mix of one-on-one and two-on-one interviews. Be ready to code on a whiteboard and
make sure all of your thoughts are clearly communicated. Lunch is with your potential future manager and
appears more casual, but it is still an interview. Each interviewer usually focuses on a different area and
is discouraged from sharing feedback with other interviewers unless there’s something they want subsequent interviewers to drill into.
Towards the end of the day, your interviewers will compare notes. If everyone still feels you're a viable candi-

date, you will have an interview with the director and the VP of the organization to which you're applying.

While this decision is rather informal, it’s a very good sign if you make it. This decision also happens behind
the scenes, and if you don’t pass, you'll simply be escorted out of the building without ever having been
the wiser (until now).
If you made it to the director and VP interviews, all of your interviewers will gather in a conference room
to give an official thumbs up or thumbs down. The VP typically won't be present but can still veto the hire
if they weren't impressed. Your recruiter will usually follow up a few days later, but feel free to ping him or
her for updates.

Definitely Prepare:
If you know what team you're interviewing with, make sure you read up on that product. What do you like
about it? What would you improve? Offering specific recommendations can show your passion for the job.

What's Unique:

Apple does two-on-one interviews often, but don’t get stressed out about them-it’s the same as a one-onone interview!

Also, Apple employees are huge Apple fans. You should show this same passion in your interview.

> The Facebook Interview
Once selected for an interview, candidates will generally do one or two phone screens. Phone screens will
be technical and will involve coding, usually an online document editor.
After the phone interview(s), you might be asked to do a homework assignment that will include a mix of

coding and algorithms. Pay attention to your coding style here. If you've never worked in an environment
which had thorough code reviews, it may be a good idea to get someone who has to review your code.
During your on-site interview, you will interview primarily with other software engineers, but hiring
managers are also involved whenever they are available. All interviewers have gone through comprehensive interview training, and who you interview with has no bearing on your odds of getting an offer.
Each interviewer is given a “role” during the on-site interviews, which helps ensure that there are no repetitive questions and that they get a holistic picture of a candidate. These
*

roles are:

Behavioral (“edi”): This interview assesses your ability to be successful in Facebook's environment.

Would you fit well with the culture and values? What are you excited about? How do you tackle challenges? Be prepared to talk about your interest in Facebook as well. Facebook wants passionate people.

You might also be asked some coding questions in this interview.
-

Coding and Algorithms (“Ninja”); These are your standard coding and algorithms questions, much like
what you'll find in this book. These questions are designed to be challenging.
You can use any program-

ming language you want.

12

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

ll| Behind the Scenes
«

Design/Architecture (“Pirate”): For a backend software engineer, you might be asked system design

questions. Front-end or other specialties will be asked design questions related to that discipline. You
should openly discuss different solutions and their tradeofts.
You can typically expect two “ninja” interviews and one “jedi” interview. Experienced candidates will also
usually get a“pirate” interview.

After your interview, interviewers submit written feedback, prior to discussing your performance with each
other. This ensures that your performance in one interview will not bias another interviewer's feedback.
Once everyone's feedback is submitted, your interviewing team and a hiring manager get together to
collaborate on a final decision. They come to a consensus decision and submit a final hire recommendation
to the hiring committee.

Definitely Prepare:
The youngest of the “elite” tech companies, Facebook wants developers with an entrepreneurial spirit. In
your interviews, you should show that you love to build stuff fast.

They want to know you can hack together an elegant and scalable solution using any language of choice.
Knowing PHP is not especially important, particularly given that Facebook also does a lot of backend work
in C++, Python, Erlang, and other languages.

What's Unique:

Facebook interviews developers for the company “in general,’ not for a specific team. If you are hired, you
will go through a six-week “bootcamp” which will help ramp you up in the massive code base. You'll get

mentorship from senior devs, learn best practices, and, ultimately, get a greater flexibility in choosing a
project than if you were assigned to a project in your interview.

> The Palantir Interview
Unlike some companies which do “pooled” interviews (where you interview with the company as a whole,

not with a specific team), Palantir interviews for a specific team. Occasionally, your application might be
re-routed to another team where there is a better fit.
The Palantir interview process typically starts with two phone interviews. These interviews are about 30 to
45 minutes and will be primarily technical. Expect to cover a bit about your prior experience, with a heavy

focus on algorithm questions.
You might also be sent a HackerRank coding assessment, which will evaluate your ability to write optimal

algorithms and correct code. Less experienced candidates, such as those in college, are particularly likely
to get such a test.

After this, successful candidates are invited to campus and will interview with up to five people. Onsite
interviews cover your prior experience, relevant domain knowledge, data structures and algorithms, and
design.

You may also likely get a demo of Palantir’s products. Ask good questions and demonstrate your passion
for the company.

After the interview, the interviewers meet to discuss your feedback with the hiring manager.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

13

Il| Behind the Scenes
Definitely Prepare:

Palantir values hiring brilliant engineers. Many candidates report that Palantir’s questions were harder than
those they saw at Google and other top companies. This doesn’t necessarily mean it’s harder to get an offer
(although it certainly can); it just means interviewers prefer more challenging questions. If you're interviewing with Palantir, you should learn your core data structures and algorithms inside and out. Then, focus
on preparing with the hardest algorithm questions.

Brush up on system design too if you're interviewing for a backend role. This is an important part of the
process.

What's Unique:
A coding challenge is a common part of Palantir’s process. Although you'll be at your computer and can
look up material as needed, don’t walk into this unprepared. The questions can be extremely challenging
and the efficiency of your algorithm will be evaluated. Thorough interview preparation will help you here.
You can also practice coding challenges online at HackerRank.com.

14

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Special Situations

There are many paths that lead someone to this book. Perhaps you have more experience but have never
done this sort of interview. Perhaps you're a tester or a PM. Or perhaps youTe actually using this book to

teach yourself how to interview better. Here's a little something for all these “special situations.’

> Experienced Candidates
Some people assume that the algorithm-style questions you see in this book are only for recent grads.
That's not entirely true.

More experienced engineers might see slightly less focus on algorithm questions—but only slightly
If a company asks algorithm questions to inexperienced candidates, they tend to ask them to experienced

candidates too. Rightly or wrongly, they feel that the skills demonstrated in these questions are important
for all developers.
Some interviewers might hold experience candidates to a somewhat lower standard. After all, it’s been
years since these candidates took an algorithms class. They're out of practice.
Others though hold experienced candidates to a higher standard, reasoning that the more years of experience allow a candidate to have seen many more types of problems.
On average, it balances out.
The exception to this rule is system design and architecture questions, as well as questions about your
resume. Typically, students don't study much system architecture, so experience with such challenges
would only come professionally. Your performance in such interview questions would be evaluated with
respect to your experience level. However, students and recent graduates are still asked these questions
and should be prepared to solve them as well as they can.
Additionally, experienced candidates will be expected to give a more in-depth, impressive response to

questions like, “What was the hardest bug you've faced?” You have more experience, and your response to
these questions should show it.

> Testers and SDETs
SDETs (software design engineers in test) write code, but to test features instead of build features. As such,
they have to be great coders and great testers. Double the prep work!
If you're applying for an SDET role, take the following approach:

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

15

Il | Special Situations
«

Prepare the Core Testing Problems: For example, how would you test a light bulb? A pen? A cash register?

Microsoft Word? The Testing chapter will give you more background on these problems.
«

Practice the Coding Questions:
The number one thing that SDETs get rejected for is coding skills. Although

coding standards are typically lower for an SDET than for a traditional developer, SDETs are still expected
to be very strong in coding and algorithms. Make sure that you practice solving all the same coding and
algorithm questions that a regular developer would get.
«

Practice Testing the Coding Questions: A very popular format for SDET questions is “Write code to do X,’
followed up by, “Okay, now test it.” Even when the question doesn’t specifically require this, you should
ask yourself, “How would } test this?” Remember: any problem can be an SDET problem!

Strong communication skills can also be very important for testers, since your job requires you to work with
so many different people. Do not neglect the Behavioral Questions section.

Career Advice
Finally, a word of career advice: If, like many candidates, you are hoping to apply to an SDET position as the

“easy” way into a company, be aware that many candidates find it very difficult to move from an SDET position to a dev position. Make sure to keep your coding and algorithms skills very sharp if you hope to make

this move, and try to switch within one to two years. Otherwise, you might find it very difficult to be taken
seriously in a dev interview.

Never let your coding skills atrophy.

> Product (and Program) Management
These “PM roles vary wildly across companies and even within a company. At Microsoft, for instance, some
PMs may be essentially customer evangelists, working in a customer-facing role that borders on marketing.
Across campus though, other PMs may spend much of their day coding. The latter type of PMs would likely
be tested on coding, since this is an important part of their job function.
Generally speaking, interviewers for PM positions are looking for candidates to demonstrate skills in the
following areas:

¢

Handling Ambiguity: This is typically not the most critical area for an interview, but you should be aware
that interviewers do look for skill here. Interviewers want to see that, when faced with an ambiguous
situation, you don’t get overwhelmed and stall. They want to see you tackle the problem head on:
seeking new information, prioritizing the most important parts, and solving the problem in a structured
way. This typically will not be tested directly (though it can be), but it may be one of many things the
interviewer is looking for in a problem.

*

Customer Focus (Attitude): Interviewers want to see that your attitude is customer-focused. Do you
assume that everyone will use the product just like you do? Or are you the type of person who puts
himself in the customer's shoes and tries to understand how they want to use the product? Questions
like “Design an alarm clock for the blind” are ripe for examining this aspect. When you hear a question
like this, be sure to ask a lot of questions to understand who the customer is and how they are using the
product. The skills covered in the Testing section are closely related to this.

*

Customer Focus (Technical Skills): Some teams with more complex products need to ensure that their PMs
walk in with a strong understanding ofthe product, as it would be difficult to acquire this knowledge on
the job. Deep technical knowledge of mobile phones is probably not necessary to work on the Android
or Windows Phone teams (although it might still be nice to have), whereas an understanding of security
might be necessary to work on Windows Security. Hopefully, you wouldn't interview with a team that

16

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Il | Special Situations
required specific technical skills unless you at least Claim to possess the requisite skills.
Multi-Level Communication: PMs need to be able to communicate with people at all levels in the

company, across many positions and ranges of technical skills. Your interviewer will want to see that you
possess this flexibility in your communication. This is often examined directly, through a question such
as, “Explain TCP/IP to your grandmother.’
Your communication skills may also be assessed by how you
discuss your prior projects.

Passion for Technology: Happy employees are productive employees, so a Company wants to make sure

that you'll enjoy the job and be excited about your work. A passion for technology—and, ideally, the
company or team—should come across in your answers. You may be asked a question directly like, “Why

are you interested in Microsoft?” Additionally, your interviewers will look for enthusiasm in how you
discuss your prior experience and how you discuss the team’s challenges.
They want to see that you will
be eager to face the job's challenges.
Teamwork / Leadership: This may be the most important aspect of the interview, and—not surprisingly—the
job itself. All interviewers will be looking for your ability to work well with other people. Most

commonly, this is assessed with questions like, “Tell me about a time when a teammate wasn't pulling

his / her own weight.’ Your interviewer is looking to see that you handle conflicts well, that you take
initiative, that you understand people, and that people like working with you. Your work preparing for

behavioral questions will be extremely important here.

All of the above areas are important skills for PMs to master and are therefore key focus areas of the interview. The weighting of each of these areas will roughly match the importance that the area holds in the
actual job.

>» Dev Lead and Managers
Strong coding skills are almost always required for dev lead positions and often for management positions
as well. If you'll be coding on the job, make sure to be very strong with coding and algorithms—just like a

dev would be. Google, in particular, holds managers to high standards when it comes to coding.
In addition, prepare to be examined for skills in the following areas:
Teamwork
/
Leadership: Anyone in a management-like role needs to be able to both lead and work with
people. You will be examined implicitly and explicitly in these areas. Explicit evaluation will come in the
form of asking you how you handled prior situations, such as when you disagreed with a manager. The
implicit evaluation comes in the form of your interviewers watching how you interact with them. If you

come off as too arrogant or too passive, your interviewer may feel you aren't great as a manager.
Prioritization: Managers are often faced with tricky issues, such as how to make sure a team meets a
tough deadline. Your interviewers will want to see that you can prioritize a project appropriately, cutting
the less important aspects. Prioritization means asking the right questions to understand what is critical
and what you can reasonably expect to accomplish.
Communication: Managers need to communicate with people both above and below them, and potentially with customers and other much less technical people. Interviewers will look to see that you can
communicate at many levels and that you can do so in a way that is friendly and engaging.
This is, in

some ways, an evaluation of your personality.

“Getting Things Done”: Perhaps the most important thing that a manager can do is be a person who“gets
things done.’ This means striking the right balance between preparing for a project and actually implementing it. You need to understand how to structure a project and how to motivate people so you can
accomplish the team’s goals.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

17

Il | Special Situations
Ultimately, most of these areas come back to your prior experience and your personality. Be sure to prepare
very, very thoroughly using the interview preparation grid.

> Startups

The application and interview process for startups is highly variable. We can’t go through every startup,
but we can offer some general pointers. Understand, however, that the process at a specific startup might
deviate from this.

The Application Process

Many startups might post job listings, but for the hottest startups, often the best way in is through a personal
referral. This reference doesn't necessarily need to be a close friend or a coworker. Often just by reaching
out and expressing your interest, you can get someone to pick up your resume to see if you're a good fit.

Visas and Work Authorization

Unfortunately, many smaller startups in the U.S. are not able to sponsor work visas. They hate the system
as much you do, but you won't be able to convince them to hire you anyway. If you require a visa and wish
to work at a startup, your best bet is to reach out to a professional recruiter who works with many startups

(and may have a better idea of which startups will work with visa issues), or to focus your search on bigger
Startups.

Resume Selection Factors

Startups tend to want engineers who are not only smart and who can code, but also people who would
work well in an entrepreneurial environment. Your resume should ideally show initiative. What sort of proj-

ects have you started?
Being able to “hit the ground running’ is also very important; they want people who already know the

language of the company.

The Interview Process

In contrast to big companies, which tend to look mostly at your general aptitude with respect to software
development, startups often look closely at your personality fit, skill set, and prior experience.
+

Personality Fit: Personality fit is typically assessed by how you interact with your interviewer. Establishing

a friendly, engaging conversation with your interviewers is your ticket to many job offers.
-

Skill Set: Because startups need people who can hit the ground running, they are likely to assess your
skills with specific programming languages. If you know a language that the startup works with, make
sure to brush up on the details.

*

Experience: Startups are likely to ask you a lot of questions about your experience. Pay special attention
to the Behavioral Questions section.

In addition to the above areas, the coding and algorithms questions that you see in this book are also very
common.

18

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Ill | Special Situations
y Acquisitions and Acquihires
During the technical due diligence process for many acquisitions, the acquirer will often interview most or
all of a startup’s employees. Google, Yahoo, Facebook, and many other companies have this as a standard

part of many acquisitions.

Which startups go through this? And why?

Part of the reasoning for this is that their employees had to go through this process to get hired. They don't
want acquisitions to be an “easy way” into the company. And, since the team is a core motivator for the

acquisition, they figure it makes sense to assess the skills of the team.
Not all acquisitions are like this, of course. The famous multi-billion dollar acquisitions generally did not
have to go through this process. Those acquisitions, after all, are usually about the user base and community, less so about the employees or even the technology. Assessing the team’s skills is less essential.
However, it is not as simple as “acquihires get interviewed, traditional acquisitions do not.’There is a big gray
area between acquihires (i.e., talent acquisitions) and product acquisitions. Many startups are acquired for
the team and ideas behind the technology. The acquirer might discontinue the product, but have the team
work on something very similar.
if your startup is going through this process, you can typically expect your team to have interviews very
similar to what a normal candidate would experience (and, therefore, very similar to what you'll see in this
book).

How important are these interviews?

These interviews can carry enormous importance. They have three different roles:
«

They can make or break acquisitions. They are often the reason a company does not get acquired.

+

They determine which employees receive offers to join the acquirer.

+

They can affect the acquisition price (in part as a consequence of the number of employees who join).

These interviews are much more than a mere “screen.”

Which employees go through the interviews?

For tech startups, usually all of the engineers go through the interview process, as they are one of the core
motivators for the acquisition.
In addition, sales, customer support, product managers, and essentially any other role might have to go
through it.
The CEO is often slotted into a product manager interview or a dev manager interview, as this is often the
closest match for the CEO's current responsibilities. This is not an absolute rule, though. It depends on what
the CEO's role presently is and what the CEO is interested in. With some of my clients, the CEO has even
opted to not interview and to leave the company upon the acquisition.

What happens to employees who don’t perform well in the interview?
Employees who underperform will often not receive offers to join the acquirer. (if many employees don't
perform well, then the acquisition will likely not go through.)

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

19

lll | Special Situations
Insome cases, employees who performed poorly in interviews will get contract positions for the purpose of
“knowledge transfer.’ These are temporary positions with the expectation that the employee leaves at the
termination of the contract (often six months), although sometimes the employee ends up being retained.
In other cases, the poor performance was a result of the employee being mis-slotted. This occurs in two
common situations:
-

Sometimes a startup labels someone who is not a“traditional” software engineer as a software engineer.

This often happens with data scientists or database engineers. These people may underperform during

the software engineer interviews, as their actual role involves other skills.
-

Inother cases, a CEO “sells”a junior software engineer as more senior than he actually is. He underper-

forms for the senior bar because he’s being held to an unfairly high standard.
In either case, sometimes the employee will be re-interviewed for a more appropriate position. (Other times
though, the employee is just out of luck.)

In rare cases, a CEO is able to override the decision for a particularly strong employee whose interview
performance didn't reflect this.

Your “best” (and worst) employees might surprise you.

The problem-solving/algorithm interviews conducted at the top tech companies evaluate particular skills,
which might not perfectly match what their manager evaluates in their employees.

I've worked with many companies that are surprised at who their strongest and weakest performers are in
interviews.
That junior engineer who still has a lot to learn about professional development might turn out
to be a great problem-solver in these interviews.
Don’t count anyone out—or in—until you've evaluated them the same way their interviewers will.

Are employees held to the same standards as typical candidates?

Essentially yes, although there is a bit more leeway.

The big companies tend to take a risk-averse approach to hiring. If someone is on the fence, they often lean
towards a no-hire.
In the case of an acquisition, the “on the fence” employees can be pulled through by strong performance
from the rest of the team.

How do employees tend to react to the news of an acquisition/acquihire?

This is a big concern for many startup CEOs and founders. Will the employees be upset about this process?
Or, what if we get their hopes up but it doesn’t happen?
What I've seen with my clients is that the leadership is worried about this more than is necessary.
Certainly, some employees are upset about the process. They might not be excited about joining one of the

big companies for any number of reasons.

Most employees, though, are cautiously optimistic about the process. They hope it goes through, but they
know that the existence of these interviews means that it might not.

20

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

ltl | Special Situations
What happens to the team after an acquisition?

Every situation is different. However, most of my clients have been kept together as a team, or possibly

integrated into an existing team.

How should you prepare your team for acquisition interviews?

Interview prep for acquisition interviews is fairly similar to typical interviews at the acquirer.
The difference
is that your company is doing this as a team and that each employee wasn't individually selected for the
interview on their own merits.
Youre all in this together.
Some startups I’ve worked with put their “real” work on hold and have their teams spend the next two or
three weeks on interview prep.

Obviously, that’s not a choice all companies can make, but—from the perspective of wanting the acquisition to go through—that does increase your results substantially.

Your team should study individually, in teams of two or three, or by doing mock interviews with each other.
If possible, use all three of these approaches.
Some people may be less prepared than others.

Many developers at startups might have only vaguely heard of big O time, binary search tree, breadth-first
search, and other important concepts. They'll need some extra time to prepare.

People without computer science degrees (or who earned their degrees a long time ago) should focus
first on learning the core concepts discussed in this book, especially big O time (which is one of the most
important). A good first exercise is to implement all the core data structures and algorithms from scratch.
If the acquisition is important to your company, give these people the time they need to prepare. They'll
need it.
Don’t wait until the last minute.

As a startup, you might be used to taking things as they come without a ton of planning. Startups that do
this with acquisition interviews tend not to fare well.
Acquisition interviews often come up very suddenly.

A company’s CEO is chatting with an acquirer (or

several acquirers) and conversations get increasingly serious. The acquirer mentions the possibility of interviews at some point in the future. Then, all of a sudden, there's a “come in at the end of this week” message.

If you wait until there’s a firm date set for the interviews, you probably won't get much more than a couple
of days to prepare. That might not be enough time for your engineers to learn core computer science
concepts and practice interview questions.

> For Interviewers
Since writing the last edition, I’ve learned that a lot of interviewers are using Cracking the Coding Interview
to learn how to interview. That wasn't really the book's intention, but | might as well offer some guidance
for interviews.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com| 6th Edition

21

lll | Special Situations
Don't actually ask the exact questions in here.

First, these questions were selected because they're good for interview preparation. Some questions that
are good for interview preparation are not always good for interviewing. For example, there are some
brainteasers in this book because sometimes interviewers ask these sorts of questions. It's worthwhile for

candidates to practice those if they're interviewing at a company that likes them, even though | personally

find them to be bad questions.
Second, your candidates are reading this book, too. You don’t want to ask questions that your candidates
have already solved.

You can ask questions similar to these, but don't just pluck questions out of here. Your goal is to test their
problem-solving skills, not their memorization skills.

Ask Medium and Hard Problems

The goal of these questions is to evaluate someone's problem-solving skills. When you ask questions that

are too easy, performance gets clustered together. Minor issues can substantially drop someone's performance. It’s not a reliable indicator.

Look for questions with multiple hurdles.
Some questions have “Aha!” moments. They

rest on a particular insight. If the candidate doesn't get that one

bit, then they do poorly. If they get it, then suddenly they've outperformed many candidates.
Even if that insight is an indicator of skills, it’s still only one indicator. Ideally, you want a question that has a

series of hurdles, insights, or optimizations. Multiple data points beat a single data point.
Here's a test: if you can give a hint or piece of guidance that makes a substantial difference in a candidate's
performance, then it’s probably not a good interview question.

Use hard questions, not hard knowledge.
Some interviewers, in an attempt to make a question hard, inadvertently make the knowledge hard. Sure

enough, fewer candidates do well so the statistics look right, but it’s not for reasons that indicate much
about the candidates’ skills.

The knowledge you are expecting candidates to have should be fairly straightforward data structure and
algorithm knowledge. It’s reasonable to expect a computer science graduate to understand the basics of
big O and trees. Most won't remember Dijkstra’s algorithm or the specifics of how AVL trees works.
If your interview question expects obscure knowledge, ask yourself: is this truly an important skill? Is it so
important that | would like to either reduce the number of candidates | hire or reduce the amount to which
| focus on problem-solving or other skills?
Every new skill or attribute you evaluate shrinks the number of offers extended, unless you counter-balance
this by relaxing the requirements for a different skill. Sure, all else being equal, you might prefer someone
who could recite the finer points of a two-inch thick algorithms textbook. But all else isn’t equal.

Avoid “scary” questions.

Some questions intimidate candidates because it seems like they involve some specialized knowledge,

evenif they really don't. This often includes questions that involve:

*

Math or probability.

22

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Hil | Special Situations
-

Low-level knowledge (memory allocation, etc.).

*

System design or scalability.

-

Proprietary systems (Google Maps, etc.).

For example, one question | sometimes ask is to find all positive integer solutions under 1,000 to a* + b>
= c? + d? (page 68).
Many candidates will at first think they have to do some sort of fancy factorization of this or semi-advanced

math. They don’t. They need to understand the concept of exponents, sums, and equality, and that’s it.
When | ask this question, | explicitly say, “I know this sounds like a math problem. Don't worry. It’s not. It’s an
algorithm question.” If they start going down the path of factorization, | stop them and remind them that

it's not a math question.

Other questions might involve a bit of probability. It might be stuff that a candidate would surely know (e.g.,

to pick between five options, pick a random number between 1 and 5). But simply the fact that it involves
probability will intimidate candidates.
Be careful asking questions that sound intimidating. Remember that this is already a really intimidating
situation for candidates. Adding on a “scary” question might just fluster a candidate and cause him to
underperform.

If you’re going to ask a question that sounds “scary,” make sure you really reassure candidates that it doesn't
require the knowledge that they think it does.

Offer positive reinforcement.

Some interviewers put so much focus on the “right” question that they forget to think about their own
behavior.
Many candidates are intimidated by interviewing and try to read into the interviewer's every word. They
can cling to each thing that might possibly sound positive or negative. They interpret that little comment of
“good luck” to mean something, even though you say it to everyone regardless of performance.

You want candidates to feel good about the experience, about you, and about their performance.
You want
them to feel comfortable. A candidate who is nervous wiil perform poorly, and it doesn’t mean that they
aren't good. Moreover, a good candidate who has a negative reaction to you or to the company is less likely

to accept an offer—and they might dissuade their friends from interviewing/accepting as well.
Try to be warm and friendly to candidates. This is easier for some people than others, but do your best.
Even if being warm and friendly doesn’t come naturally to you, you can still make a concerted effort to
sprinkle in positive remarks throughout the interview:
+

“Right, exactly”

-

“Great point”

*

“Good work.’

«

“Okay, that’s a really interesting approach”

>

“Perfect?

No matter how poorly a candidate is doing, there is always something they got right. Find a way to infuse
some positivity into the interview.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

23

ll | Special Situations
Probe deeper on behavioral questions.
Many candidates are poor at articulating their specific accomplishments.
You ask them a question about a challenging situation, and they tell you about a difficult situation their
team faced. As far as you can tell, the candidate didn't really do much.

Not so fast, though. A candidate might not focus on themselves because they've been trained to celebrate

their team’s accomplishments and not boast about themselves. This is especially common for people in
leadership roles and female candidates.
Don’t assume that a candidate didn’t do much ina

situation just because you have trouble understanding

what they did. Call out the situation (nicely!). Ask them specifically if they can tell you what their role was.
If it didn’t really sound like resolving the situation was difficult, then, again, probe deeper. Ask them to go

into more details about how they thought about the issue and the different steps they took. Ask them why
they took certain actions. Not describing the details of the actions they took makes them a flawed candi-

date, but not necessarily a flawed employee.
Being a good interview candidate is its own skill (after all, that’s part of why this book exists), and it’s probably not one you want to evaluate.

Coach your candidates.
Read through the sections on how candidates can develop good algorithms. Many of these tips are ones

you can offer to candidates who are struggling. You're not “teaching to the test” when you do this; you're
separating interview skills from job skills.
-

Many candidates don’t use an example to solve an interview question (or they don’t use a good

example). This makes it substantially more difficult to develop a solution, but it doesn’t necessarily mean
that they’re not very good problem solvers. If candidates don’t write an example themselves, or if they
inadvertently write a special case, guide them.

+

Some candidates take a long time to find the bug because they use an enormous example. This doesn’t
make them a bad tester or developer. It just means that they didn't realize that it would be more efficient
to analyze their code conceptually first, or that a small example would work nearly as well. Guide them.

-

If they dive into code before they have an optimal solution, pull them back and focus them on the algorithm (if that’s what you want to see). It’s unfair to say that a candidate never found or implemented the
optimal solution if they didn’t really have the time to do so.

-

If they get nervous and stuck and aren't sure where to go, suggest to them that they walk through the
brute force solution and look fOr areas to optimize.

+

If they haven't said anything and there is a fairly obvious brute force, remind them that they can start off

with a brute force. Their first solution doesn't have to be perfect.
Even if you think that a candidate's ability in one of these areas is an important factor, it’s not the only factor.
You can always mark someone downfor “failing”
this hurdle while helping to guide them past it.

While this book is here to coach candidates through interviews, one of your goals as an interviewer is to
remove the effect of not preparing. After all, some candidates have studied for interviews and some candidates haven't, and this probably doesn't reveal much about their skills as an engineer.
Guide candidates using the tips in this book (within reason, of course—you don't want to coach candidates
through the problems so much that you're not evaluating their problem-solving skills anymore).

24

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

lll | Special Situations
Be careful here, though. If you’re someone who comes off as intimidating to candidates, this coaching could
make things worse. it can come off as your telling candidates that they're constantly messing up by creating
bad examples, not prioritizing testing the right way, and so on.

If they want silence, give them silence.

One of the most common questions that candidates ask me is how to deal with an interviewer who insists
on talking when they just need a moment to think in silence.
If your candidate needs this, give your candidate this time to think. Learn to distinguish between “I'm stuck
and have no idea what to do,” and “I'm thinking in silence”
It might help you to guide your candidate, and it might help many candidates, but it doesn’t necessarily
help ail candidates. Some need a moment to think. Give them that time, and take into account when you're

evaluating them that they got a bit less guidance than others.

Know your mode: sanity check, quality, specialist, and proxy.

At a very, very high level, there are four modes of questions:
-

Sanity Check: These are often easy problem-solving or design questions. They assess a minimum
degree of competence in problem-solving. They won't tell distinguish between “okay” versus “great”, so

don't evaluate them as such. You can use them early in the process (to filter out the worst candidates), or
when you only need a minimum degree of competency.

+

Quality Check: These are the more challenging questions, often in problem-solving or design. They
are designed to be rigorous and really make a candidate think. Use these when algorithmic/problemsolving skills are of high importance. The biggest mistake people make here is asking questions that are,

in fact, bad problem-solving questions.
-

Specialist Questions: These questions test knowledge of specific topics, such as Java or machine
learning. They should be used when for skills a good engineer couldn't quickly learn on the job. These
questions need to be appropriate for true specialists. Unfortunately, I’ve seen situations where a
company asks a candidate who just completed a 10-week coding bootcamp detailed questions about

Java. What does this show? If she has this knowledge, then she only learned it recently and, therefore, it’s
likely to be easily acquirable. if it’s easily acquirable, then there’s no reason to hire for it.
+

Proxy Knowledge: This is knowledge that is not quite at the specialist level (in fact, you might not even

need it), but that you would expect a candidate at their level to know. For example, it might not be very
important to you if a candidate knows CSS or HTML. But if a candidate has worked in depth with these
technologies and can't talk about why tables are or aren't good, that suggests an issue. They're not
absorbing information core to their job.

When companies get into trouble is when they mix and match these:
*

They ask specialist questions to people who aren't specialists.

*

They hire for specialist roles when they don’t need specialists.

+

They need specialists but are only assessing pretty basic skills.

+

They are asking sanity check (easy) questions, but think they're asking quality check questions. They
therefore interpret a strong difference between “okay” and “great” performance, even though a very

minor detail might have separated these.
In fact, having worked with a number of small and large tech companies on their hiring process, | have
found that most companies are doing one of these things wrong.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

25

IV
Before the Interview

Acing an interview starts well before the interview itself—years before, in fact. The following timeline
outlines what you should be thinking about when.
If you're starting late into this process, don’t worry. Do as much “catching up“
as you can, and then focus on
preparation. Good luck!

> Getting the Right Experience
Without a great resume, there's no interview. And without great experience, there’s no great resume. There-

fore, the first step in landing an interview is getting great experience. The further in advance you can think
about this the better.
For current students, this may mean the following:
-

Take the Big Project Classes: Seek out the classes with big coding projects. This is a great way to get somewhat practical experience before you have any formal work experience. The more relevant the project is
to the real world, the better.

-

Getan Internship: Do everything you can to land an internship early in school. It will pave the way for
even better internships before you graduate. Many of the top tech companies have internship programs
designed especially for freshman and sophomores. You can also look at startups, which might be more

flexible.
*

Start Something: Build a project on your own time, participate in hackathons, or contribute to an open
source project. It doesn’t matter too much what it is. The important thing is that you're coding. Not only
will this develop your technical skills and practical experience, your initiative will impress companies.

Professionals, on the other hand, may already have the right experience to switch to their dream company.
For instance, a Google dev probably already has sufficient experience to switch to Facebook. However, if

you're trying to move from a lesser-known company to one of the “biggies,” or from testing/IT into a dev
role, the following advice will be useful:

*

Shift Work Responsibilities More Towards Coding: Without revealing to your manager that you are thinking
of leaving, you can discuss your eagerness to take on bigger coding challenges. As much as possible,
try to ensure that these projects are “meaty,” use relevant technologies, and lend themselves well to a
resume bullet or two. It is these coding projects that will, ideally, form the bulk of your resume.

-

Use Your Nights and Weekends: If you have some free time, use it to build a mobile app, a web app, ora

piece of desktop software. Doing such projects is also a great way to get experience with new technolo-

gies, making you more relevant to today’s companies. This project work should definitely be listed on
your resume; few things are as impressive to an interviewer as a candidate who built something “just

26

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Iv | Before the Interview
for fun”
All of these boil down to the two big things that companies want to see: that you're smart and that you can
code. if you can prove that, you can land your interview.
In addition, you should think in advance about where you want your career to go. If you want to move into

management down the road, even though you're currently looking for a dev position, you should find ways
now of developing leadership experience.

> Writing a Great Resume
Resume screeners look for the same things that interviewers do. They want to know that you're smart and
that you can code.
That means you should prepare your resume to highlight those two things. Your love of tennis, traveling, or
magic cards won't do much to show that. Think twice before cutting more technical lines in order to allow

space for your non-technical hobbies.

Appropriate Resume Length
In the US, it is strongly advised to keep a resume to one page if you have less than ten years of experience.

More experienced candidates can often justify 1.5 - 2 pages otherwise.
Think twice about a long resume. Shorter resumes are often more impressive.
«

Recruiters only spend a fixed amount of time (about 10 seconds) looking at your resume. If you limit
the content to the most impressive items, the recruiter is sure to see them. Adding additional items just
distracts the recruiter from what you'd really like them to see.

-

Some people just flat-out refuse to read long resumes. Do you really want to risk having your resume
tossed for this reason?

If you are thinking right now that you have too much experience and can't fit it all on one or two pages,
trust me, you can. Long resumes are not a reflection of having tons of experience; they're a reflection of not
understanding how to prioritize content.

Employment History

Your resume does not—and should not—include a full history of every role you've ever had. Include only
the relevant positions—the ones that make you a more impressive candidate.
Writing Strong Bullets
For each role, try to discuss your accomplishments with the following approach: “Accomplished X by imple-

menting Y which led to Z.” Here’s an example:

+

“Reduced object rendering time by 75% by implementing distributed caching, leading to a 10% reduction in log-in time.’

Here's another example with an alternate wording:
+

“Increased average match accuracy from 1.2 to 1.5 by implementing a new comparison algorithm based
on windiff?

Not everything you did will fit into this approach, but the principle is the same: show what you did, how you
did it, and what the results were. ideally, you should try to make the results”measurable” somehow.

CrackingTheCodinglnterview.com | 6th Edition

27

IV | Before the Interview
Projects
Developing the projects section on your resume is often the best way to present yourself as more experi-

enced. This is especially true for college students or recent grads.
The projects should include your 2 - 4 most significant projects. State what the project was and which
languages or technologies it employed. You may also want to consider including details such as whether

the project was an individual or a team project, and whether it was completed for a course or independently. These details are not required, so only include them if they make you look better. independent
projects are generally preferred over course projects, as it shows initiative.
Do not add too many projects. Many candidates make the mistake of adding all 13 of their prior projects,
cluttering their resume with small, non-impressive projects.
So what should you build? Honestly, it doesn’t matter that much. Some employers really like open source
projects (it offers experience contributing to a large code base), while others prefer independent projects
(it's easier to understand your personal contributions). You could build a mobile app, a web app, or almost
anything. The most important thing is that you're building something.

Programming Languages and Software
Software
Be conservative about what software you list, and understand what's appropriate for the company. Software like Microsoft Office can almost always be cut. Technical software like Visual Studio and Eclipse is
somewhat more relevant, but many of the top tech companies won't even care about that. After all, is it
really that hard to learn Visual Studio?

Of course, it won't hurt you to list all this software. It just takes up valuable space. You need to evaluate the
trade-off of that.
Languages

Should you list everything you've ever worked with, or shorten the list to just the ones that you're most
comfortable with?
Listing everything you've ever worked with is dangerous. Many interviewers consider anything on your
resume to be “fair game’ as far as the interview.
One alternative is to list most of the languages you've used, but add your experience level. This approach
is shown below:
-

Languages: Java (expert), C++ (proficient), JavaScript (prior experience).

Use whatever wording (“expert’, “fluent”, etc.) effectively communicates your skillset.
Some people list the number of years of experience they have with a particular language, but this can be
really confusing. If you first learned Java 10 years ago, and have used it occasionally throughout that time,
how many years of experience is this?
For this reason, the number of years of experience is a poor metric for resumes. It’s better to just describe
what you mean in plain English.

Advice for Non-Native English Speakers and Internationals
Some companies will throw out your resume just because of a typo. Please get at least one native English
speaker to proofread your resume.

28

Cracking the Coding tnterview, 6th Edition

IV | Before the Interview
Additionally, for US positions, do not include age, marital status, or nationality. This sort of personal informa-

tion is not appreciated by companies, as it creates a legal liability for them.

Beware of (Potential) Stigma

Certain languages have stigmas associated with them. Sometimes this is because of the language themselves, but often it’s because of the places where this language is used. I’m not defending the stigma; i'm
just letting you know of it.
A few stigmas you should be aware of:
-

Enterprise Languages: Certain languages have a stigma associated with them, and those are often the
ones that are used for enterprise development. Visual Basic is a good example of this. If you show yourself to be an expert with VB, it can cause people to assume that you're less skilled. Many of these same
people will admit that, yes, VB.NET is actually perfectly capable of building sophisticated applications.
But still, the kinds of applications that people tend to build with it are not very sophisticated. You would
be unlikely to see a big name Silicon Valley using VB.
In fact, the same argument (although less strong) applies to the whole .NET platform. If your primary

focus is .NET and you're not applying for .NET roles, you'll have to do more to show that you're strong
technically than if you were coming in with a different background.
+

Being Too Language Focused: When recruiters at some of the top tech companies see resumes that
list every flavor of Java on their resume, they make negative assumptions about the caliber of candidate. There is a belief in many circles that the best software engineers don't define themselves around

a particular language. Thus, when they see a candidate seems to flaunt which specific versions of a
language they know, recruiters will often bucket the candidate as “not our kind of person.”

Note that this does not mean that you should necessarily take this “language flaunting’ off your resume.
You need to understand what that company values. Some companies do value this.

¢

Certifications: Certifications for software engineers can be anything from a positive, to a neutral, to
a negative. This goes hand-in-hand with being too language focused; the companies that are biased
against candidates with a very lengthy list of technologies tend to also be biased against certifications.
This means that in some cases, you should actually remove this sort of experience from your resume.

*

Knowing Only One or Two Languages: The more time you've spent coding, the more things you've

built, the more languages you will have tended to work with. The assumption then, when they see a

resume with only one language, is that you haven't experienced very many problems. They also often
worry that candidates with only one or two languages will have trouble learning new technologies (why
hasn't the candidate learned more things?) or will just feel too tied with a specific technology (potentially not using the best language for the task).
This advice is here not just to help you work on your resume, but also to help you develop the right experience. If your expertise is in C#.NET, try developing some projects in Python and JavaScript. If you only know
one or two languages, build some applications in a different language.
Where possible, try to truly diversify. The languages in the cluster of {Python, Ruby, and JavaScript} are

somewhat similar to each other. It’s better if you can learn languages that are more different, like Python,
C++, and Java.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

29

IV | Before the Interview
> Preparation Map
The following map should give you an idea of how to tackle the interview preparation process. One of the
key takeaways here is that it’s not just about interview questions. Do projects and write code, too!

Build projects outside

of school/work.

Learn multiple
aa

programming
=.

languages.

v
Students: find intern-

Build website / port-

ship and take classes

folio showcasing your

with large projects.

experience.

+

Expand Network.

v
Professionals: focus

Continue to work on

work on “meaty”

projects. Try to add on

projects.

one more project.

Vv
Read intro sections
'

of CtCl (Cracking the
;

:

Coding Interview).

oenese
ake

target

Tienes

ger"

list

o

:

preferred companies.

rr

Create draft of resume
;

and send it out fora
:

resume review.

v
jinandlateees

Bia

O

he

Implement data struc-

Form mock interview

tures and algorithms | ———* | group with friends to

from scratch.

| interview each other.
Vv

Do several mock interviews.

Do mini-projects to
solidify understanding

of key concepts.

v
Continue to practice
interview questions.

Create list to track
mistakes you’ve made
solving problems.

v
Begin apeizing to

Review / update

Create interview prep

companies.

resume.

grid (pg 32).

/

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

IV | Before the Interview

Re-read intro to CtCi,
especially Tech &
Behavioral section.

Do another mock
interview.

Continue to practice

questions, writing
code on paper.

v
Do a final mock
interview.

Phone Interview:
Locate headset and/or
video camera.

v
Rehearse stories
from the interview

prep grid (pg 32).

Re-read Algorithm

Re-read Big O section

Approaches (pg 67).

(pg 38).

v
Rehearse each story

Continue to practice

from interview prep

interview questions.

grid once.

Vv
Continue to practice

Review Powers of 2

questions & review

table (pg 61). Print

your list of mistakes.

for a phone screen.

v
Remember to talk out

loud. Show how you
think.

Be Confident (Not
Cocky!).

Wake up in plenty of
time to eat a good
breakfast
& be on time.

v
Don't forget: Stum-

Write Thank You note

bling and struggling is

to recruiter.

normal!

v
Get an offer? Celebrate!

If no offer, ask when

If you haven't heard

Your hard work paid

you can re-apply. Don't

from recruiter, check in

off!

give up hope!

after one week.

CrackingTheCoding!nterview.com | 6th Edition

31

Behavioral Questions

Behavioral questions are asked to get to know your personality, to understand your resume more deeply,
and just to ease you into an interview. They are important questions and can be prepared for.

> Interview Preparation Grid
Go through each of the projects or components of your resume and ensure that you can talk about them in
detail. Filling out a grid like this may help:

Challenges
Mistakes/Failures

Enjoyed
Leadership
Conflicts

What You'd Do Differently

Along the top, as columns, you should list all the major aspects of your resume, including each project, job,
or activity. Along the side, as rows, you should list the common behavioral questions.
Study this grid before your interview. Reducing each story to just a couple of keywords may make the grid

easier to study and recall. You can also more easily have this grid in front of you during an interview without
it being a distraction.
In addition, ensure that you have one to three projects that you can talk about in detail. You should be able
to discuss the technical components in depth. These should be projects where you played a central role.

What are your weaknesses?

When asked about your weaknesses, give a real weakness! Answers like “My greatest weakness is that |
work too hard” tell your interviewer that youre arrogant and/or won't admit to your faults. A good answer
conveys a real, legitimate weakness but emphasizes how you work to overcome it.
For example:

“Sometimes, | don't have a very good attention to detail, While that’s good because it lets me
execute quickly, it also means that | sometimes make careless mistakes, Because of that, | make
sure to always have someone else double check my work.”

32

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

V | Behavioral Questions

What questions should you ask the interviewer?
Most interviewers will give you a chance to ask them questions. The quality of your questions will be a

factor, whether subconsciously or consciously, in their decisions. Walk into the interview with some questions in mind.
You can think about three general types of questions.
Genuine Questions

These are the questions you actually want to know the answers to. Here are a few ideas of questions that

are valuable to many candidates:
1. “What is the ratio of testers to developers to program managers? What is the interaction like? How does
project planning happen on the team?”
2. “What brought you to this company? What has been most challenging for you?”

These questions will give you a good fee! for what the day-to-day life is like at the company.
insightful Questions
These questions demonstrate your knowledge or understanding of technology.
1. “I noticed that you use technology X. How do you handle problem Y?”

2. “Why did the product choose to use the X protocol over the
Y protocol? | know it has benefits like A, B,
C, but many companies choose not to use it because of issue D’’
Asking such questions will typically require advance research about the company.
Passion Questions

These questions are designed to demonstrate your passion for technology. They show that you’ inter-

ested in learning and will be a strong contributor to the company.
1. “I'm very interested in scalability, and I'd love to learn more about it. What opportunities are there at this
company to learn about this?”
2. “I'm not familiar with technology X, but it sounds like a very interesting solution. Could you tell me a bit
more about how it works?”

> Know Your Technical Projects
As part of your preparation, you should focus on two or three technical projects that you should deeply
master. Select projects that ideally fit the following criteria:
*

The project had challenging components (beyond just “learning a Jot”).

*

You played a central role (ideally on the challenging components).

*

You can talk at technical depth.

For those projects, and al! your projects, be able to talk about the challenges, mistakes, technical decisions,

choices of technologies (and tradeoffs of these), and the things you would do differently.
You can also think about follow-up questions, like how you would scale the application.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

33

V| Behavioral Questions
» Responding to Behavioral Questions
Behavioral questions allow your interviewer
to get to know you and your prior experience better. Remember

the following advice when responding to questions.

Be Specific, Not Arrogant

Arrogance is a red flag, but you still want to make yourself sound impressive. So how do you make yourself

sound good without being arrogant? By being specific!
Specificity means giving just the facts and letting the interviewer derive an interpretation. For example,
rather than saying that you “did all the hard parts,” you can instead describe the specific bits you did that
were challenging.

Limit Details

When a candidate blabbers on about a problem, it’s hard for an interviewer who isn’t well versed in the
subject or project to understand it.
Stay light on details and just state the key points. When possible, try to translate it or at least explain the

impact. You can always offer the interviewer the opportunity to drill in further.

|

“By examining the most common user behavior and applying the Rabin-Karp algorithm, |
designed a new algorithm to reduce search from O(n) to O(log

n) in 90% of cases. | can go

into more details if you'd like.’

This demonstrates the key points while letting your interviewer ask for more details if he wants to.

Focus on Yourself, Not Your Team

Interviews are fundamentally an individual assessment. Unfortunately, when you listen to many candidates
(especially those in leadership roles), their answers are about “we’, “us”, and “the team.’ The interviewer
walks away having little idea what the candidate's actual impact was and might conclude that the candidate did little.

Pay attention to your answers. Listen for how much you say “we” versus “I.”Assume that every question is
“ a”

about your role, and speak to that.

Give Structured Answers
There are two common ways to think about structuring responses to a behavioral question: nugget first
and S.A.R. These techniques can be used separately or together.
Nugget First

Nugget First means starting your response with a “nugget” that succinctly describes what your response
will be about.
For example:

>

Interviewer: “Tell me about a time you had to persuade a group of people to make a big change.”
Candidate: “Sure, let me tell you about the time when | convinced my school to let undergraduates teach

their own courses. Initially, my school had a rule where...”

34

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

V| Behavioral Questions
This technique grabs your interviewer's attention and makes it very clear what your story will be about. It

also helps you be more focused in your communication, since you’ve made it very clear to yourself what

the gist of your response is.
S.A.R, (Situation, Action, Result)
The S.A.R. approach means that you start off outlining the situation, then explaining the actions you took,

and lastly, describing the result.
Example: “Tell me about a challenging interaction with a teammate.”
-

Situation: On my operating systems project, | was assigned to work with three other people. While two
were great, the third team member didn't contribute much. He stayed quiet during meetings, rarely
chipped in during email discussions, and struggled to complete his components. This was an issue not

only because it shifted more work onto us, but also because we didn’t know if we could count on him.

+

Action:| didn’t want to write him off completely yet, so | tried to resolve the situation. | did three things.
First, | wanted to understand why he was acting like this. Was it laziness? Was he busy with something
else? | struck up a conversation with him and then asked him open-ended questions about how he felt it
was going. Interestingly, basically out of nowhere, he said that he wanted to take on the writeup, which
is one of the most time intensive parts. This showed me that it wasn’t laziness; it was that he didn't feel

like he was good enough to write code.
Second, now that | understand the cause, I tried to make it clear that he shouldn't fear messing up. | told

him about some of the bigger mistakes that | made and admitted that | wasn’t clear about a lot of parts
of the project either.

Third and finally, | asked him to help me with breaking out some of the components of the project. We

sat down together and designed a thorough spec for one of the big component, in much more detail
than we had before. Once he could see all the pieces, it helped show him that the project wasn’t as scary
as he’d assumed.

-

Result: With his confidence raised, he now offered to take on a bunch of the smaller coding work, and
then eventually some ofthe biggest parts. He finished all his work on time, and he contributed more in
discussions. We were happy to work with him on a future project.

The situation and the result should be succinct. Your interviewer generally does not need many details to

understand what happened and, in fact, may be confused by them.
By using the S.A.R. model with clear situations, actions and results, the interviewer will be able to easily
identify how you made an impact and why it mattered.
Consider putting your stories into the following grid:
Nugget

Story 1

.|

Situation

| Action(s)

|

Result

What It Says

| Es

Story
2

Explore the Action

In almost all cases, the “action” is the most important part of the story. Unfortunately, far too many people
talk on and on about the situation, but then just breeze through the action.

CrackingTheCoding|nterview.com | 6th Edition

35

V | Behavioral Questions
Instead, dive into the action. Where possible, break down the action into multiple parts. For example: “I did
three things. First, 1...’ This will encourage sufficient depth.

Think About What It Says
Re-read the story on page 35. What personality attributes has the candidate demonstrated?
+
+

Initiative/Leadership: The candidate tried to resolve the situation by addressing it head-on.
Empathy: The candidate tried to understand what was happening to the person. The candidate also
showed empathy in knowing what would resolve the teammate’s insecurity.

-

Compassion: Although the teammate was harming the team, the candidate wasn't angry at the teammate. His empathy led him to compassion.

«

Humility: The candidate was able to admit to his own flaws (not only to the teammate, but also to the
interviewer).

«

Teamwork/Helpfulness: The candidate worked with the teammate to break down the project into
manageable chunks.

You should think about your stories from this perspective. Analyze the actions you took and how you
reacted. What personality attributes does your reaction demonstrate?
In many cases, the answer is “none.’That usually means you need to rework how you communicate the story
to make the attribute clearer. You don’t want to explicitly say, “I did X because | have empathy,’ but you can

go one step away from that. For example:
-

Less Clear Attribute: “| called up the client and told him what happened.”

-

More Clear Attribute (Empathy and Courage): “I made sure to call the client myself, because | knew
that he would appreciate hearing it directly from me.’

If you still cant make the personality attributes clear, then you might need to come up with a new story
entirely.

» So, tell me about yourself...
Many interviewers kick off the session by asking you to tell them a bit about yourself, or asking you to walk
through your resume. This

is essentially a “pitch” It’s your interviewer's first impression of you, so you want

to be sure to nail this.

Structure

A typical structure that works well for many people is essentially chronological, with the opening sentence
describing their current job and the conclusion discussing their relevant and interesting hobbies outside

of work (if any).
1. Current Role [Headline Only]: “I’m a software engineer at Microworks, where I've been leading the
Android team for the last five years.”

2. College: My background is in computer science. | did my undergrad at Berkeley and spent a few
summers working at startups, including one where | attempted to launch my own business.
3.

Post College & Onwards: After college, | wanted to get some exposure to larger corporations so ! joined

Amazon as a developer. It was a great experience. | learned a ton about large system design and | got to

really drive the launch of a key part of AWS. That actually showed me that | really wanted to be ina more

36

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

V/ Behavioral Questions

entrepreneurial environment.

4. Current Role [Details]: One of my old managers from Amazon recruited me out to join her startup,
which was what brought me to Microworks. Here, | did the initial system architecture, which has scaled
pretty well with our rapid growth. | then took an opportunity to lead the Android team. | do manage a

team of three, but my role is primarily with technical leadership: architecture, coding, etc.
5. Outside of Work: Outside of work, I’ve been participating in some hackathons—mostly doing iOS
development there as a way to learn it more deeply. I'm also active as a moderator on online forums
around Android development.
6. Wrap Up: I’m looking now for something new, and your company caught my eye. I’ve always loved the
connection with the user, and | really want to get back to a smaller environment too.

This structure works well for about 95% of candidates. For candidate with more experience, you might
condense part of it. Ten years from now, the candidate's initial statements might become just: “After my
CS degree from Berkeley, | spent a few years at Amazon and then joined a startup where | led the Android
team.’

Hobbies

Think carefully about your hobbies. You may or may not want to discuss them.
Often they’re just fluff. If your hobby is just generic activities like skiing or playing with your dog, you can
probably skip it.

Sometimes though, hobbies can be useful. This often happens when:
«

The hobby is extremely unique (e.g,., fire breathing). It may strike up a bit of a conversation and kick off
the interview ona more amiable note.

-

The hobby is technical. This not only boosts your actual skillset, but it also shows passion for technology.

*

The hobby demonstrates a positive personality attribute. A hobby like “remodeling your house yourself”
showsa drive to learn new things, take some risks, and get your hands dirty (literally and figuratively).

it would rarely hurt to mention hobbies, so when in doubt, you might as well.

Think about how to best frame your hobby though. Do you have any successes or specific work to show
from it (e.g., landing a part in a play)? Is there a personality attribute this hobby demonstrates?

Sprinkle in Shows of Successes
In the above pitch, the candidate has casually dropped in some highlights of his background.
-

He specifically mentioned that he was recruited out of Microworks by his old manager, which shows that
he was successful at Amazon.
He also mentions wanting to be in a smaller environment, which shows some element of culture fit
(assuming this is a startup he’s applying for).

*

He mentions some successes he's had, such as launching a key part of AWS and architecting a scalable
system.

*

He mentions his hobbies, both of which show a drive to learn.

When you think about your pitch, think about what different aspects of your background say about you.
Can you can drop in shows of successes (awards, promotions, being recruited out by someone you worked
with, launches, etc.)? What do you want to communicate about yourself?

Cracking TheCodinglnterview.com | 6th Edition

37

Big O

This is such an important concept that we are dedicating an entire (long!) chapter to it.

Big O time is the language and metric we use to describe the efficiency of algorithms. Not understanding
it thoroughly can really hurt you in developing an algorithm. Not only might you be judged harshly for
not really understanding big O, but you will also struggle to judge when your algorithm is getting faster or
slower.
Master this concept.

> An Analogy
Imagine the following scenario: You've got a file on a hard drive and you need to send it to your friend who
lives across the country. You need to get the file to your friend as fast as possible. How should you send it?
Most people’s first thought would be email, FTP, or some other meansof electronic transfer. That thought is
reasonable, but only half correct.
If it’s a small file, you're certainly right. It would take 5 - 10 hours to get to an airport, hop on a flight, and
then deliver it to your friend.

But what if the file were really, really large? Is it possible that it’s faster to physically deliver it via plane?
Yes, actually it is. A one-terabyte (1 TB) file could take more than a day to transfer electronically. It would be
much faster to just fly it across the country. if your file is that urgent (and cost isn’t an issue), you might just
want to do that.

What if there were no flights, and instead you had to drive across the country? Even then, for a really huge
file, it would be faster to drive.

> Time Complexity
This is what the concept of asymptotic runtime, or big O time, means. We could describe the data transfer
“algorithm” runtime as:
-

Electronic Transfer: O(s), where s is the size of the file. This means that the time to transfer the file

increases linearly with the size of the file. (Yes, this is a bit of a simplification, but that’s okay for these
purposes.)

*

Airplane Transfer: 0(1) with respect to the size of the file. As the size of the file increases, it won't take
any longer to get the file to your friend. The time is constant.

38

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

VI| BigO
No matter how big the constant is and how slow the linear increase is, linear will at some point surpass
constant.

There are many more runtimes than this. Some of the most common ones areO( log N),O(N

log N),

O(N),O(N2) and 0( 2%). There's no fixed list of possible runtimes, though.
You can also have multiple variables in your runtime. For example, the time to paint a fence that’s w meters

wide and h meters high could be described as O(wh). If you needed p layers of paint, then you could say
that the time is

O(whp).

Big O, Big Theta, and Big Omega

If you've never covered big O in an academic setting, you can probably skip this subsection. It might
confuse you more than it helps. This “FYI” is mostly here to clear up ambiguity in wording for people who
have learned big O before, so that they don't say, “But | thought big O meant...”
Academics use big O, big © (theta), and big

+

(omega) to describe runtimes.

O (big O): In academia, big O describes an upper bound on the time. An algorithm that prints all the

values in an array could be described as O(N), but it could also be described as O(N*),0(N?), or O( 2%)
(or many other big O times). The algorithm is at least as fast as each of these; therefore they are upper
bounds on the runtime. This is similar to a less-than-or-equal-to relationship. If Bob is X years old (I'll
assume no one lives past age 130), then you could say X
X £

1,00@o0rx <

¢

138. It would also be correct to say that

1,000,002. It’s technically true (although not terribly useful). Likewise, a simple

algorithm to print the values in an array is O(N) as well as O(N?) or any runtime bigger than O(N).
Q (big omega): In academia,

is the equivalent concept but for lower bound. Printing the values in

an array is O(N) as wellasQ(log N) and (1). After all, you know that it won't be faster than those
runtimes.

*

© (big theta): In academia, © means both O and Q. That is, an algorithm is O(N) if it is bothO(N) and
O(N). © gives a tight bound on runtime.

In industry (and therefore in interviews), people seem to have merged O and O together. Industry's meaning
of big O is closer to what academics mean by @, in that it would be seen as incorrect to describe printing an

array as O(N’). Industry would just say this is O(N).
For this book, we will use big O in the way that industry tends to use it: By always trying to offer the tightest
description of the runtime.

Best Case, Worst Case, and Expected Case

We can actually describe our runtime fOr an algorithm in three different ways.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com| 6th Edition

39

VI| Big
O
Let’s look at this from the perspective of quick sort. Quick sort picks a random element as a“pivot” and then
swaps values in the array such that the elements less than pivot appear before elements greater than pivot.
This gives a“partial sort” Then it recursively sorts the left and right sides using a similar process.
-

Best Case: if all elements are equal, then quick sort will, on average, just traverse through the array once.

This isO(N). (This actually depends slightly on the implementation of quick sort. There are implementations, though, that will run very quickly on a sorted array.)

-

Worst Case: What if we get really unlucky and the pivot is repeatedly the biggest element in the array?
(Actually, this can easily happen. If the pivot is chosen to be the first element in the subarray and the
array is sorted in reverse order, we'll have this situation.) In this case, our recursion doesn’t divide the

array in half and recurse on each half. It just shrinks the subarray by one element. This will degenerate

to an O(N?) runtime.
«

xpected Case: Usually, though, these wonderful or terrible situations won't happen. Sure, sometimes
the pivot will be very low or very high, but it won't happen over and over again. We can expect a runtime

of

O(N log N).

We rarely ever discuss best case time complexity, because it’s not a very useful concept. After all, we could

take essentially any algorithm, special case some input, and then get an O(1) time in the best case.
For many—probably most—algorithms, the worst case and the expected case are the same. Sometimes

they're different, though, and we need to describe both of the runtimes.
What is the relationship between best/worst/expected case and big O/theta/omega?

It’s easy for candidates to muddle these concepts (probably because both have some concepts of”higher’,
“lower” and “exactly right”), but there is no particular relationship between the concepts.

Best, worst, and expected cases describe the big O (or big theta) time for particular inputs or scenarios.
Big O, big omega, and big theta describe the upper, lower, and tight bounds for the runtime.

>» Space Complexity
Time is not the only thing that matters in an algorithm. We might also care about the amount of memory—
or space—required by an algorithm.

Space complexity is a parallel concept to time complexity. If we need to create an array of size n, this will

require O(n) space. If we need a two-dimensional array of size nxn, this will require O(n?) space.

Stack space in recursive calls counts, too. For example, code like this would take
4

aint sum(int n)

2

if (n <= @)

3

{ /* Ex 1.*/
{

return @;

4

}

5

return n + sum(n-1);

&

}

Each call adds a level to the stack.
i

sum(4)

2

->

sum(3)

3

-> sum(2)

4

->

5

sum(1)

-> sum(@)

Each of these calls is added to the call stack and takes up actual memory.

40

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

O(n) time and O(n)

space.

VI| Big
O
However, just because you have n calls total doesn’t mean it takes O(n) space. Consider the below function, which adds adjacent elements between 0 and n:
1

int pairSumSequence(int n)

2

int sum = Q;

3

for (int i = 0;

4

5

i++)

{

i + 1);

ii

§

Tere

i <n;

sum += pairSum(i,

{ /* Ex 2.*/

return sum;

Jy

8

9

int

18

11

pairSum(int a,

int b)

{

return a + b;

}

There will be roughly O(n) calls to pairSum. However, those calls do not exist simultaneously on the call

stack, so you only need O(1) space.

>» Drop the Constants

It is very possible for O(N) code to run faster than 0(1) code for specific inputs. Big O just describes the
rate of increase.

For this reason, we drop the constants in runtime. An algorithm that one might have described as O(2N)
is actually O(N).
Many people resist doing this. They will see code that has two (non-nested) for loops and continue this

0(2N). They think they’re being more “precise. They’re not.
Consider the below code:
Min and Max 1

Min and Max 2

2

int

min =

Integer.MAX VALUE;

i

int min

2

int max =

Integer.MIN_VALUE
;

2

int max = Integer.MIN_VALUE
;

3

for

3.

for

4

5
6

(int x

if

(x <

:

array)

min)

{

min = x;

if (x > max) max = x;
}

4

= Integer.MAX_VALUE;

(int x

if

5

3}

6

for (int x

co

?

:

array)

(x < min)

:

{

min = x;

array)

{

if (x > max) max = x;

}

Which one is faster? The first one does one for loop and the other one does two for loops. But then, the first
solution has two lines of code per for loop rather than one.
If you're going to count the number of instructions, then you’d have to go to the assembly level and take
into account that multiplication requires more instructions than addition, how the compiler would optimize something, and all sorts of other details.
This would be horrendously complicated, so don’t even start going down this road. Big O allows us to

express how the runtimescales. Wejust need to accept that it doesn’t mean that O(N)

is always betterthan

O(N2).

Cracking TheCodinginterview.com

| 6th Edition

41

Vij BigO
> Drop the Non-Dominant Terms
What do you do about an expression such as O(N?

+

N)? That second N isn’t exactly a constant. But it’s

not especially important.

We already said that we drop constants. Therefore,O(N? + N*) would be O(N2). If we don't care about that
latter N* term, why would we care about N? We don't.
You should drop the non-dominant terms.

«

O(N? + N) becomes O(N?).

+

O(N + log N) becomes O(N).

+

0O(5*2" + 10@0N?°?) becomesO(
2").

We might still have a sum in a runtime. For example, the expression O(B? + A) cannot be reduced (without
some special knowledge of A and B).
The following graph depicts the rate of increase for some of the common big O times.

Ollag x)

As you can see, O( x2) is much worse than 0(x), but it’s not nearly as bad as O( 2”) orO(x! ). There are lots

of runtimes worse than O(x!) too, such as O(x*) orO(2% * x!).

> Multi-Part Algorithms: Add vs. Multiply
Suppose you have an algorithm that has two steps. When do you multiply the runtimes and when do you
add them?

This is

42

acommon source of confusion for candidates.

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

VI| Big
O

Add the Runtimes:0(A + B)
1.
2
30

for (int a: arrA) {
print(a);
3

4

for (int a: arrA) {

2

for (int b : arrB) {

3

print(a + “,” + b);
}

4

4

5

Multiply the Runtimes: 0(A*B)

for (int b: arrB) {

&

5

+

print(b);

7}
In the example on the left, we do A chunks of work then B chunks of work. Therefore, the total amount of

work isO(A + B).
In the example on the right, we do B chunks of work for each element in A. Therefore, the total amount of

workisO(A * B).
In other words:

«

{f your algorithm is in the form “do this, then, when you’re all done, do that” then you add the runtimes.

-

If your algorithm is in the form “do this for each time you do that” then you multiply the runtimes.

It’s very easy to mess this up in an interview, so be careful.

>» Amortized Time
An ArrayList, or a dynamically resizing array, allows you to have the benefits of an array while offering
flexibility in size. You won't run out of space in the ArrayList since its capacity will grow as you insert
elements.
An ArrayList is implemented with an array. When the array hits capacity, the ArrayList class will create a
new array with double the capacity and copy all the elements over to the new array.
How do you describe the runtime of insertion? This is a tricky question.

The array could be full. if the array contains N elements, then inserting a new element will take O(N) time.
You will have to create a new array of size 2N and then copy N elements over. This insertion will take O(N)
time.

However, we also know that this doesn't happen very often. The vast majority of the time insertion will be

inO(1)

time.

We need a concept that takes both into account. This is what amortized time does. It allows us to describe
that, yes, this worst case happens every once in a while. But once it happens, it won't happen again for so
long that the cost is “amortized.”
In this case, what is the amortized time?
As we insert elements, we double the capacity when the size ofthe array is a power of 2. So after X elements,
we double the capacity at array sizes 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, ..., X. That doubling takes, respectively, 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32,
64, ..., X copies.

What is the sum of

1+2+4+8+ 16+... +X? If you read this sum left to right, it starts with 1 and doubles

until it gets to X. If you read right to left, it starts with X and halves until it gets to 1.

What then is the sum of X + x/ + A + WA +...+ 1? This is roughly 2X.
Therefore, X insertions take 0( 2X) time. The amortized time for each insertion is O(1).

CrackingTheCoding!nterview.com| 6th Edition

43

VI| Big
O
» Log N Runtimes
We commonly see O(log N) in runtimes, Where does this come from?
Let's look at binary search as an example. In binary search, we are looking for an example x in an N-element

sorted array. We first compare x to the midpoint of the array. If x
middle, then we search on the left side of the array. If x

>

==

middle, then we return. If x

<

middle, then we search on the right side of

the array.
search 9 within {1,
compare 9 to 11

5, 8,

9,

11,

13,

15,

19,

21}

-> smaller.

search 9 within {1,

5,

8,

9,

11}

compare 9 to 8 -> bigger
search 9 within {9,

11}

compare 9 to 9
return

We start off with an N-element array to search. Then, after a single step, we’re down to Ns elements. One
more step, and we're down to VA elements. We stop when we either find the value or we're down tojust
one element.

The total runtime is then a matter of how many steps (dividing N by 2 each time) we can take until N
becomes 1.
N = 16

N= 8

/* divide

N=4

/* divide by 2 */

by 2 */

N= 2

/* divide by 2 */

N=1

/* divide by 2 */

We could look at this in reverse (going from 1 to 16 instead of 16 to 1). How many times we can multiply 1
by 2 until we get N?
N=

1

N= 2

/* multiply by 2 */

N=4

/* multiply by 2 */

N= 8

/* multiply by 2 */

N = 16

/* multiply by 2 */

What is k in the expression 2" = N? This is exactly what Log expresses.
2* = 16 -> log.16 = 4

logN=k -> 2*=N

This is a good takeaway for you to have. When you see a problem where the number of elements in the

problem space gets halved each time, that will likely be

aO(log N) runtime.

This is the same reason why finding an element in a balanced binary search tree is O(log N).With each
comparison, we go either left or right. Half the nodes are on each side, so we cut the problem space in half
each time.

(

What's the base of the log? That’s an excellent question!
The short answer is that it doesn’t matter
for the purposes of big O. The longer explanation can be found at “Bases of Logs”
on page 630.

>» Recursive Runtimes
Here’s a tricky one. What's the runtime of this code?
1

int f(int n) f{

44

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

VI| Big
O
v)

if (n <= 1) {

3

return

4

}

5

&

1;

return f(n

-

1)

+ f(n

-

1);

fF

A lot of people will, for some reason, see the two calls to f and jump to O(N2). This is completely incorrect.
Rather than making assumptions, let's derive the runtime by walking through the code. Suppose we call

(4). This calls (3) twice. Each of those calls to (3) calls £ (2), until we get down to

Pee aaa

74)

F(4)

On
Oy
wD)

(1)

(1)

(1).

es,
cmcan)

wo ye
(1)

(1)

f(1)

How many calls are in this tree? (Don’t count!)
The tree will have depth N. Each node (i.e., function call) has two children. Therefore, each level will have
twice as many calls as the one above it. The number of nodes on each level is:

1

2

2 * previous level = 2

2

4

2 * previous level=2 *

2?

22

3

8

2 * previous level=2 * 2? = 2?

pe

4

16

2 * previous level=2 *

2"

Therefore, there willbe 2°+21 + 22 + 23 + 24 +

...

2?

21 =

2? = 24

+ 2% (whichis 2"? -

1) nodes. (See “Sum of

Powers of 2” on page 630.)

Try to remember this pattern. When you have a recursive function that makes multiple calls, the runtime will

often (but not always) look like O(branches**""), where branches is the number of times each recursive
call branches. In this case, this gives us O( 2").

:

As you may recall, the base of a log doesn’t matter for big O since logs of different bases are
only different by a constant factor. However, this does not apply to exponents. The base of an

exponent does matter. Compare 2" and 8". If you expand 8", you get (2?)", which equals 22",
which equals 27” * 2". As you can see, 8" and 2" are different by a factor of 27". That is very much
not a constant factor!

The space complexity ofthis algorithm will be O(N). Although we have O( 2") nodes in the tree total, only

O(N) exist at any given time. Therefore, we would only need to have O(N) memory available.

> Examples and Exercises
Big O time is a difficult concept at first. However, once it “clicks,” it gets fairly easy. The same patterns come

up again and again, and the rest you can derive.
We'll start off easy and get progressively more difficult.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

45

Vi| Big
O
Example 1
What is the runtime of the below code?
1

void foo({int[]

2

int sum = @;

array)

3

int product = 1;

4

for (int i = 0;

5

{

i < array.length;

i++)

{

sum += array[i];

S

}

a

for (int i = @;

8

i < array.length;

i++) {

product *= array[i];

9

}

128

System.out.printin(sum + “, ” + product)
;

11

}

This will take O(N) time. The fact that we iterate through the array twice doesn’t matter.

Example
2

What is the runtime of the below code?
i

=void printPairs(int[]

2

for (int i = 0;

3

for

4

(int j

array)

{

i < array.length;

= 0;

j

i++)

< array.length;

{

j++)

{

System.out.printin(array[i] + “,” + array[j]);

5
6
7}

I

ii

The inner for loop has O(N) iterations and it is called N times. Therefore, the runtime is O(N*).
Another way we can see this is by inspecting what the “meaning” of the code is. It is printing all pairs (two-

element sequences). There are O(N?) pairs; therefore, the runtime is O(N’).

Example 3

This is very similar code to the above example, but now the inner for loop starts ati + 1.
i

= void printUnorderedPairs(int[]

2

for (int i = 0;

3

for (int

4

j

array)

i < array.length;

= i+ 1;

j < array.length;

System.out.printin(array[i]

5
6
7

}

{

i++) {
j++)

{

+ “,” + array[j]);

}

3

We can derive the runtime several ways.

This pattern of for loop is very common. It’s important that you know the runtime and that you

deeply understand it. You can't rely on just memorizing common runtimes. Deep comprehension is important.

Counting the Iterations
The first time through j runs for N-1 steps. The second time, it’s N- 2 steps. Then N-3 steps. And so on.
Therefore, the number of steps total is:
(N-1) + (N-2) +

46

(N-3) +...

+241

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

VI} Big
O
1+2+4+3+

...+N-1

sum of 1 through N-1

The sum of1 through N-1 is we) (see “Sum of Integers 1 through N” on page 630), so the runtime will
be O(N7).
What It Means
Alternatively, we can figure out the runtime by thinking about what the code “means.’ It iterates through

each pair of values for (i,

J) where
j is bigger than i.

There are N? total pairs. Roughly half of those will have i <

j andthe remaining half willhave i > J. This

code goes through roughly A pairs so it does O(N?) work.
Visualizing What It Does

The code iterates through thefollowing (i,

j) pairswhenN = 8:

(®, 1) (8, 2) (0, 3) (0, 4) (0, 5) (0, 6) (0, 7)
(1, 2) (1, 3) (1, 4) (1, 5) (1, 6) (1,°7)

(2, 3) (2, 4) (2, 5S) (25) G)otay 7)
G3, 4) (3, 5) (3, 6)3,°7)
(4, 5) (4, 6) (A, 7)
(5, 6) (5, 7)
(6, 7)

This looks like half of an NXN matrix, which has size (roughly) A . Therefore, it takes O(N?) time.
Average Work

We know that the outer loop runs N times. How much work does the inner loop do? It varies across iterations, but we can think about the average iteration.
What is the average value of1,

2,

3,

4,

5,

6,

7,

8,

9,

10? The average
value will be in the

middle, so it will be roughly 5. (We could give a more precise answer, of course, but we don’t need to for
big O.)

What aboutfor1,

2,

3,

...,

N?The average value in this sequence is N/2.

Therefore, since the inner loop does LY work on average and it is run N times, the total work is WA which
is O(N?).
Example 4
This is similar to the above, but now we have two different arrays.
void printUnorderedPairs(int[]
hb wn

for

arrayA,

int[ ] arrayB)

i < arrayA.length; i++)

for (int j = @; j < arrayB.length;

{

{

j++) {

if (arrayA[i] < arrayB[j]) {

System.out.println(arrayA[i] + “,” + arrayB[j]);

KN Mw
wo

(int i = 0;

}

}

}

t

We can break up this analysis. The if-statement within j’s for loop is O(1) time since it’s just a sequence of
constant-time statements.

We now have this:

1

void printUnorderedPairs(int[] arrayA, int[] arrayB) {

Cracking heCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

47

VI| Big O
2

for (int i = @;

S

i < arrayA.length;

for (int j = @;

4

j

i++) {

< arrayB.length;

j++) {

/* O(1) work */

5
6}
7
4}

}

For each element of arrayA, the inner for loop goes through b iterations, whereb =

arrayB. length.

lfa = arrayA. length, then the runtime is O(ab).
If you said O(N2), then remember your mistake for the future. It’s not O(N?) because there are two different
inputs. Both matter. This is an extremely common mistake.

Example 5

What about this strange bit of code?
1

void printUnorderedPairs(int[] arrayA,

2

for (int i = @;

3

for (int j = ®;

4

int[]

arrayB)

{

i++) {

j < arrayB.length; j++) {

for (int k = 0; k < 100000; k++) {

5

6
?
8
9

i < arrayA.length;

System.out.printin(arrayA[i] + “,” + arrayB[j]);

i

}

t
3

Nothing has really changed here. 100,000 units of work is still constant, so the runtime is O(ab).

Example 6

The following code reverses an array. What is its runtime?
i

=void reverse(int[]

2

for (int i = @;

array) {

i < array.length / 2;

3

int other = array.length

4

int temp = array[il];

5

array[i] = array[other];

6

array[other]

7
8

-

i -

i++)

{

1;

= temp;

}

}

This algorithm runs in O(N) time. The fact that it only goes through half of the array (in terms of iterations)
does not impact the big O time.
Example 7

Which of the following are equivalent to O(N)? Why?

O(N + P),whereP < VA
+

O(2N)

-

O(N + log N)

-

O(N + M)

Let’s go through these.

-

IfP < %,then we know that N is the dominant term so we can drop the O(P).

*

0(2N) isO(N) since we drop constants.

48 |

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

VI| Big
O
-

O(N) dominates O(log N),so wecan drop the O(log N).

-

Thereis no established relationship between N andM, so we have to keep both variables in there.

Therefore, all but the last one are equivalent toO(N).
Example 8

Suppose we had an algorithm that took in an array of strings, sorted each string, and then sorted the full
array. What would the runtime be?

Many candidates will reason the following: sorting each string isO(N

log N) and we have to do this for

each string, so that’s O(N*N log N).We also have to sort this array, so that’s an additionalO(N log N)
work. Therefore, the total runtime isO(N? log N + N log N), which is justO(N? log N).
This is completely incorrect. Did you catch the error?

The problem is that we used N in two different ways. In one case, it's the length of the string (which string?).
And in another case, it’s the length of the array.
In your interviews, you can prevent this error by either not using the variable “N” at all, or by only using it
when there is no ambiguity as to what N could represent.
In fact, | wouldn’t even use a and b here, or mand Nn. It’s too easy to forget which is which and mix them up.

An O(a?) runtime is completely different from an O(a*b) runtime.
Let's define new terms—and use names that are logical.

-

Lets be the length ofthe longest string.

»

Leta be the length of the array.

Now we can work through this in parts:

+

Sorting eachstringisO(s log s).

*

We have to do this for every string (and there are a strings), sothat’sO(a*s log s).
Now we have to sort all the strings. There are a strings, so you'll may be inclined to say that this takesO(a
log a)

time. This is what most candidates would say. You should also take into account that you need

to compare

the strings. Each string comparison takes O(S) time. There areO(a log a) comparisons,

therefore this willtakeO(a*s log a)

time.

If you add up these two parts, you getO(a*s(log a + log s)).
This is it. There is no way to reduce it further.

Example 9
The following simple code sums the values of all the nodes in a balanced binary search tree. What is its

Ww
&
WP Re

runtime?
int sum(Node node)
if

{

(node == null)

{

return @;

t
return sum(node.left)

+ node.value + sum(node.right)
;

5

Just because it’s a binary search tree doesn't mean that there is a log in it!
We can look at this two ways.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

49

VI| Big
O
What It Means

The most straightforward way is to think about what this means. This code touches each node in the tree
once and does a constant time amount of work with each “touch” (excluding the recursive calls).
Therefore, the runtime will be linear in terms of the number of nodes. If there are N nodes, then the runtime

isO(N).
Recursive Pattern

On page 44, we discussed a pattern for the runtime of recursive functions that have multiple branches.
Let’s try that approach here.

We said that the runtime of a recursive function with multiple branches is typically O(branches**”),

There are two branches at each call, so we're looking at O( 29°").
At this point many people might assume that something went wrong since we have an exponential algo-

rithm—that something in our logic is flawed or that we’ve inadvertently created an exponential time algorithm (yikes!).

The second statement is correct.
We do have an exponential time algorithm, but it’s not as bad as one might
think. Consider what variable it’s exponential with respect to.

What is depth? The tree is a balanced binary search tree. Therefore, if there are N total nodes, then depth
is roughly log N.

By the equation above, we get O( 2! ").
Recall what log, means:
2? = Q -> log,Q = P

What is 2?°2 "? There is a relationship between 2 and log, so we should be able to simplify this.
LetP = 218 “. By the definition of log,, we can write this as log,P = log,N.ThismeansthatP = N.
Let P = 218%
~>

log,P = log.N
P=N

->

-> 2'6N = N

Therefore, the runtime of this code is O(N), where N is the number of nodes.
Example 10

The following method checks ifa number is prime by checking fordivisibility on numbers less than it. It only

needs to go up to the square root ofn because if n is divisible by a number greater than its square root then
it’s divisible by something smaller than it.
For example, while 33 is divisible by 11 (which is greater than the square root of 33), the “counterpart” to 11
is 3 (3 *

11 = 33). 33 will have already been eliminated as a prime number by 3.

What is the time complexity of this function?
1

boolean isPrime(int n) {

2

for

3

(int

x = 2;

x * x <= nj

x+)
{

if (n% x == 6) {

4a

return false;

5

}

&

}

?

return

50

true;

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

VI| BigO
8

}

Many people get this question wrong. If you're careful about your logic, it’s fairly easy.

The work inside the for loop is constant. Therefore, we just need to know how many iterations the for loop
goes through in the worst case.

The for loop will start when x = 2 andend when x*x = n.Or,inother words, it stops when x = vn (when
x equals the square root of n).

This for loop is really something like this:
1

boolean isPrime(int n)

2
3

if (n% x == 6)

4

x++)

{

{

return false;

5
6

}

?

return true;

8

{

for (int x = 2; x <= sart(n);

}

}

This runs inO( vn) time.

Example 11

The following code computes n!
L

int factorial(int n)

2

if (n < 6)

{

3

return

-1;

4

} else if

&

{

return 1;

6

} else {

%

return n *

g
9

(n == @)

(n factorial). What is its time complexity?

{

}

factorial(n

-

1);

}

This is just a straight recursion from n to n-1 to n-2 down to 1. It will take O(n) time.

Example 12

This code counts all permutations of a string.
1

void permutation(String str)

2

permutation(str,

{

“”);

5
4

5

void permutation(String str,

6

if (str.length()

7

String prefix)

{

{

System.out.println(prefix)
;

8

} else {

9

for (int

is

i = 0;

i < str.length();

String rem = str.substring(®,

aa

permutation(rem,

12

413
14

== 6)

i++)

{

i) + str.substring(i + 1);

prefix + str.charAt(i));

}

ik
}

This is a (very!) tricky one. We can think about this by looking at how many times permutation gets called
and how long each call takes. We'll aim for getting as tight of an upper bound as possible.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

51

VI| Big
O
How many times does permutation get called in its base case?
If we were to generate a permutation, then we would need to pick characters for each “slot” Suppose we
had 7 characters in the string. In the first slot, we have 7 choices. Once we pick the letter there, we have 6
choices for the next slot. (Note that this is 6 choices for each of the 7 choices earlier.) Then 5 choices for the
next slot, and so on.

=

Therefore, the total number of options is 7 * 6 * 5 * 4* 3 * 2 * 1, whichis also expressed as 7! (7 factorial).

This tells us that there are n! permutations. Therefore, permutation is called n! times in its base case
(when prefix is the full permutation).

How many times does permutation get called before its base case?
But, of course, we also need to consider how many times lines 9 through 12 are hit. Picture a large call tree
representing all the calls. There aren! leaves, as shown above. Each leaf is attached to a path of length n.

Therefore, we knowthere willbe no more thann

* n! nodes (function calls) in this tree.

How long does each function call take?

Executing line 7 takes O(n ) time since each character needs to be printed.
Line 10 and line 11 will also take O(n) time combined, due to the string concatenation. Observe that the
sum of the lengths of rem, prefix, and str. charAt(i) will always be n.
Each node in our call tree therefore corresponds to O(n ) work.
What is the total runtime?

Since we are calling permutation O(n * n!)

times (as an upper bound), and each one takes O(n) time,

the total runtime will not exceed O(n? * n!).
Through more complex mathematics, we can derive a tighter runtime equation (though not necessarily a
nice closed-form expression).
This would almost certainly be beyond the scope of any normal interview.

Example 13

The following code computes the Nth Fibonacci number.
1

int fib(int n)

i

if

3

else if

4

return fib(n

a

(n <= 0)

{
return @;

(n == 1)
-

return 1;

1) + fib(n

-

2);

J:

We can use the earlier pattern we'd established for recursive calls: O(branches®?*)
There are 2 branches per call, and we go as deep as N, therefore the runtime is O0( 2").
Through some very complicated math, we can actually get a tighter runtime. The time is indeed

exponential, but it’s actually closer to O(1.6"). The reason that it’s not exactly O( 2") is that, at
the bottom of the call stack, there is sometimes only one call. It turns out that a lot of the nodes
are at the bottom (as is true in most trees), so this single versus double call actually makes a big

difference. Saying O(2") would suffice for the scope of an interview, though (and is still technically correct, if you read the note about big theta on page 39). You might get “bonus points’ if
you can recognize thatit’ll actually be less than that.

52
e

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

Vi| Big
O
Generally speaking, when you see an algorithm with multiple recursive calls, you're looking at exponential
runtime.

Example 14

The following code prints all Fibonacci numbers from 0 to n. What is its time complexity?
4

void allFib(int n)

2

for (int i = ©;

3

{

i <n;

i++)

{

System.out.println(i + “: ” + fib(i));

4
5

t

6

7

int fib(int n)

{

8

if (n <= @) return @;

9

else if

18

return fib(n

11

(n == 1)
-

return

1)

1;

+ fib(n

-

2);

}

Many people will rush to concluding that since fib(n) takes O( 2") time and it’s called n times, then it’s
O(n2").
Not so fast. Can you find the error in the logic?

The error is that the n is changing. Yes, fib(n) takes O( 2") time, but it matters what that value of n is.
Instead, let's walk through each call.
fib(1) -> 2? steps
fib(2) -> 2? steps
fib(3)

-> 2? steps

fib(4)

-> 2* steps

fib(n)

-> 2” steps

Therefore, the total amount of work is:

22 4) 2? +) DP

es +

As we showed on page 44, this is 2"*?. Therefore, the runtime to compute the first n Fibonacci numbers

(using this terrible algorithm) is stillO( 2").
Example 15

The following code prints all Fibonacci numbers from 0 to n. However, this time, it stores (i.e., caches) previously computed values in an integer array. If it has already been computed, it just returns the cache. What
is its runtime?
1

void

allFib(int n)

{

2

int[] memo = new int[n + 1];

3

for

4

5
&

(int i = @;

i <n;

i++)

{

System.out.printin(i + “: ” + fib(i,

memo));

}
}

7

8

int fib(int n, int[] memo) {

9

if (n <= @)

ie

else if (n == 1)

return @Q;

return 1;

11

else if (memo[n]

> @)

return memo[n];

12

413

memo[n] = fib(n - 1, memo) + fib(n - 2, memo);

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

53

VI| Big
O
14

return memo[n];

is}

Let’s walk through what this algorithm does.
fib(1)

-> return 1

fib(2)

fib(1)

-> return 1

fib(@)

-> return @

store 1 at memo[2]

fib(3)
fib(2)

->

lookup memo[2]

fib(1)

->

return 1

store

->

return 1

return 2

2 at memo[3]

fib(4)
fib(3)

-> lookup memo[3]

->

fib(2)

-> lookup memo[2]

-> return 1

store 3 at memo[4]

fib(5)
fib(4)

-> lookup memo[4]

-> return 3

fib(3)

-> lookup memo[3]

-> return 2

store 5

at memo[5]

At each call to fib(i), we have already computed and stored the values for Fib(i-1) and fib(i-2).
We just look up those values, sum them, store the new result, and return. This takes a constant amount of
time.

We're doing a constant amount of work N times, so this isO(n) time.
This technique, called memoization, is a very common one to optimize exponential time recursive algorithms.

Example 16

The following function prints the powers of 2 from 1 through n (inclusive). For example, if nis 4, it would
print 1, 2, and 4. What is its runtime?
i

int

2

powersOf2(int n)

if

sg

{

(n <1) {
return @;

4

}

=

else

if

(n == 1)

{

System. out.printin(1);

6

return

y

} else {

1;

8

int prev = powersOf2(n / 2);

9

int curr = prev * 2;

18

System.out.printin(curr)
;

Au

return

12

curr;

}

13}

There are several ways we could compute this runtime.
What It Does

Let's walk through a

call like powersOf2(50).

powersOf2(5@)
-> powersOf2(25)

54

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

VI| BigO
-> powersOf2(12)

-> powersOf2
(6)
-> powersOf2(3)

-> powersOf2(1)
-> print & return 1
print & return 2

print & return 4
print & return 8

print & return 16
print & return 32

The runtime, then, is the number oftimes we can divide 50 (or n) by 2 until we get down to the base case (1).

As we discussed on page 44, the number of times we can halve n until we get

1isO(log n).

What It Means

We can also approach the runtime by thinking about what the code is supposed to be doing. It’s supposed

to be computing the powers of 2 from 1 through n.

Each callto powersOf2 results in exactly one number being printed and returned (excluding what happens
in the recursive calls). So if the algorithm prints 13 values at the end, then powersOf2 was called 13 times.
In this case, we are told that it prints all the powers of 2 between 1 and n. TherefOre, the number of times
the function is called (which will be its runtime) must equal the number of powers of 2 between 1 and n.

There are log N powers of2 between 1 and n. Therefore, the runtime isO(log n).
Rate of Increase
A final way to approach the runtime is to think about how the runtime changes as n gets bigger. After all,
this is exactly what big O time means.

If N goes from P to P+1, the number of calls to powersOfTwo might not change at all. When will the
number of calls to power
sOf Two increase? It will increase by 1 each time n doubles in size.
So, each time n doubles, the number of calls to powersOfTwo increases by 1. Therefore, the number of
calls to powersOf Two is the number of times you can double 1 until you get n. It is x in the equation 2*
=n.

What is x? The value of x is log n.This is exactly what meant by x = log n.

Therefore, the runtime isO(log n).

Additional Problems
V1.1

The following code computes the product of a and b. What is its runtime?
int product(int a,

int b)

{

int sum = @;

for (int i = 0;
sum

+=

i < b;

i++)

{

a;

}
return

sum;

}
VI.2.

The following code computes a”. What is its runtime?
int power(int a,
if (b << @)

int b)

{

{

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

55

VI| Big
O
return @;

//

error

} else if (b == @) {
return 1;

} else {
return a * power(a,

b

-

1);

i

}
VL3

~The following code computes a % D.Whatis its runtime?
int mod(int a,
if (b

int b) {

<= 0)

{

return

-1;

}

int div =a /)b;
return a

-

div * b;

}
vi.4

The following code performs integer division. What is its runtime (assume a and b are both

positive)?
int div(int a,

int b)

{

int count = @;
int sum = b;

while

(sum <= a)

{

Sum += b;
count++;

}
return

count;

ii
VIL5 ~~ The following code computes the [integer] square root of a number. If the number is not a

perfect square (there is no integer square root), then it returns -1. It does this by successive
guessing. If nis 100, it first guesses 50. Too high? Try something lower - halfway between 1
and 50. What is its runtime?
int sqrt(int

n) {

return sqrt_helper(n,

1,

n);

}
int

sqrt_helper(int n,
if (max < min)
int guess =

int min,

return -1;

} else if

{

(min + max) / 2;

if (guess * guess == n)
return

int max)

// no square root

{ // found

it!

guess;

(guess * guess <n)

return sqrt_helper(n,

{ // too low

guess + 1,

max);

// try higher

min,

-

// try lower

} else { // too high
return sqrt_helper(n,

}

guess

1);

}

VI.6 = The following code computes the [integer] square root of a number. If the number is not
a perfect square (there is no integer Square root), then it returns -1. It does this by trying
increasingly large numbers until it finds the right value (or is too high). What is its runtime?
int sqrt(int n) {
for

(int guess = 1;
if

guess * guess <= n;

(guess * guess == n)
return guess;

56

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

{

guess++)

{

VI| BigO
}

}

return

-1;

}
VI.7—

‘If abinary search tree is not balanced, how long might it take (worst case) to find an element
in it?

VI.8

You are looking for a specific value in a binary tree, but the tree is not a binary search tree.

What is the time complexity of this?
VI.9

The

appendTONew method appends a value to an array by creating a new, longer array and

returning this longer array. You’ve used the

appendTONew method to create a copyArray

function that repeatedly calls appendToNew. How long does copying an array take?
int[]

copyArray(int[]

int[]
for

array)

{

copy = new int[@];

(int value

copy =

:

array)

{

appendToNew(copy,

value);

}
return

copy;

}
int[]

appendToNew(int[]

//

int[]
for

array,

int value)

{

copy all elements over to new array

bigger = new int[array.length + 1];

(int i = 0;

bigger[i]

i < array.length;

i++)

{

= array[i];

}
// add

new element

bigger[bigger.length
return

- 1]

= value;

bigger;

}
VL10

The following code sums the digits in a number. What is its big O time?
int sumDigits(int n)
int

{

sum = @;

while

(n

> @)

{

sum += n % 10;
n

/=

10;

}
return

sum;

}
VI.11

The following code prints all strings of length k where the characters are in sorted order. It

does this by generating all strings of length k and then checking if each is sorted. What is its
runtime?
int numChars = 26;
void

printSortedStrings(int

remaining)

printSortedStrings(remaining,

{

“’’);

}
void

printSortedStrings(int

remaining,

String prefix)

{

if (remaining == @) {
if

(isInOrder(prefix))

{

System. out.println(prefix)
;

}

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

574

VI} Big
O
} else {
for (int i = @;

i < numChars;

i++)

{

char c = ithLetter(i);
printSortedStrings(remaining - 1,

prefix + c);

}
boolean isInOrder(String s)
for

(int i = 1;

{

i < s.length();

i++)

{

int prev = ithLetter(s.charAt(i -

1));

int curr = ithLetter(s.charAt(i));
if (prev >

curr)

{

return false;

}
}
return true;

}
char ithLetter(int i)
return

(char)

{

(((int)

‘a’) + 1);

}
Vl.12

The following code computes the intersection (the number of elements in common) of two
arrays. It assumes that neither array has duplicates. It computes the intersection by sorting
one array (array b) and then iterating through array a checking (via binary search) if each
value is in b. What is its runtime?
int

intersection(int[]

a,

int[]

b)

{

mergesort(b);
int intersect = 0;

for

(int x

:

a)

{

if (binarySearch(b,

x)

>= 9)

{

intersect++;

}

}

return intersect;

Solutions
1.

O(b). The for loop just iterates through b.

WN

. O(b). The recursive code iterates throughb calls, since it subtracts one at each level.
. 0(1). It does a constant amount of work.

bh

. 0 i ). The variable count will eventually equal 3% . The while loop iterates count times. Therefore, it

iterates We times.

5. O(log

n). This algorithm is essentially doing a binary search to find the square root. Therefore, the

runtime isO(log n).
6. O(sqrt(n) ). This is just a straightforward loop that stops when guess*guess

words, when guess > sqrt(n)).

58

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

> n (or, in other

VI| Big
O
7. O(n), where n is the number of nodes in the tree. The max time to find an element is the depth tree. The
tree could be a straight list downwards and have depth n.

8. O(N). Without any ordering property onthe nodes, we might have to search through all the nodes.
9. O(N’), where n is the number of elements in the array. The first call to appendToNew takes 1 copy. The
second cali takes 2 copies. The third call takes 3 copies. And so on. The total time will be the sum of 1

through n, which is O(n?).
10.0(log n). The runtime will be the number ofdigits in the number. A number with d digits can have a

value up to10%. ifn = 104,thend = log n. Therefore, the runtime isO(log n).
11.0(kc*), where k is the length of the string and c is the number of characters in the alphabet. It takes
O(c*) time to generate each string. Then, we need to check that each of these is sorted, which takes
O(k) time.
12.0(b log b + a log b).First,
we have
to sort array b, which takesO(b log b) time. Then, for each
element
in a, we do binary search inO( log b) time.
The second part takesO(a log b)time.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

59

Vil
Technical Questions

Technical questions form the basis for how many of the top tech companies interview. Many candidates are
intimidated by the difficulty of these questions, but there are logical ways to approach them.

>» How to Prepare
Many candidates just read through problems and solutions. That's like trying to learn calculus by reading a

problem and its answer. You need to practice solving problems. Memorizing solutions won't help you much.

For each problem in this book (and any other problem you might encounter), do the following:
1,

Try to solve the problem on your own. Hints are provided at the back of this book, but push yourself to
developa solution with as little help as possible. Many questions are designed to be tough—that’s okay!

When you're solving a problem, make sure to think about the space and time efficiency.
2.

Write the code on paper. Coding on a computer offers luxuries such as syntax highlighting, code completion, and quick debugging. Coding on paper does not. Get used to this—and to how slow it is to write
and edit code—by coding on paper.

3.

Test your code—on paper. This means testing the general cases, base cases, error cases, and so on. You'll
need to do this during your interview, so it’s best to practice this in advance.

4,

Type your paper code as-is into a computer. You will probably make a bunch of mistakes. Start a list of all
the errors you make so that you can keep these in mind during the actual interview.

In addition, try to do as many mock interviews as possible. You and a friend can take turns giving each other
mock interviews. Though your friend may not be an expert interviewer, he or she may still be able to walk
you through a coding or algorithm problem. You'll also learn a lot by experiencing what it’s like to be an
interviewer.

> What You Need To Know
The sorts of data structure and algorithm questions that many companies focus on are not knowledge
tests. However, they do assume a baseline of knowledge.

Core Data Structures, Algorithms, and Concepts

Most interviewers wont ask about specific algorithms for binary tree balancing or other complex algorithms. Frankly, being several years out of school, they probably don’t remember these algorithms either.
You're usually only expected to know the basics. Here’s a list of the absolute, must-have knowledge:

60

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Vil | Technical Questions

i Linked Lists

Breadth-First Search

Bit Manipulation

Trees, Tries, & Graphs

Depth-First Search

Memory (Stack vs. Heap)

Stacks & Queues

Binary Search

Recursion

Heaps

Merge Sort

Dynamic Programming

Vectors / ArrayLists

Quick Sort

Big O Time & Space

Hash Tables
For each of these topics, make sure you understand how to use and implement them and, where applicable,
the space and time complexity.

Practicing implementing the data structures and algorithm (on paper, and then on a computer) is also a
great exercise. It will help you learn how the internals of the data structures work, which is important for
many interviews.

|

Did you miss that paragraph above? It’s important. If you don’t feel very, very comfortable with
each of the data structures and algorithms listed, practice implementing them from scratch.

In particular, hash tables are an extremely important topic. Make sure you are very comfortable with this
data structure.

Powers of 2 Table

The table below is useful for many questions involving scalability or any sort of memory limitation. Memorizing this table isn’t strictly required, but it can be useful. You should at least be comfortable deriving it.

7

128

8

256

10

1024

16

65,536

1 thousand

1KB
64 KB

20

1,048,576

1 million

1 MB

30

1,073,741,824

1 billion

1 GB

32

4,294,967,296

40

1,099,511,627,776

4 GB
1 trillion

1TB

For example, you could use this table to quickly compute that a bit vector mapping every 32-bit integer to

a boolean value could fit in memory on a typical machine. There are 2” such integers. Because each integer

takes one bit in this bit vector, we need 2” bits (or 2” bytes) to store this mapping. That's about halfa gigabyte of memory, which can be easily held in memory on a typical machine.
If you are doing a phone screen with a web-based company, it may be useful to have this table in front of
you.

CrackingTheCoding|nterview.com | 6th Edition

61

Vil | Technical Questions
> Walking Through a Problem
The below map/flowchart walks you through how to Solve a problem. Use this in your practice. You can
download this handout and more at CrackingTheCodingInterview.com.

A Problem-Solving Flowchart

Listen ------

Examples

Pay very close attention to any

Most examples are too smaii or are special

information inthe problem description.

cases, Debug your example. is there any

You probably need it all for an optimal

Way it’s a special case? Is it big enough?

:

algorithm.

Brute Force «--Get a brute-force solution as soon as
possible. Don’t worry about developing

an efficient algorithm yet. State a naive
algorithm and its runtime, then optimize
from there. Don’t code yet though!

Optimize
Yest inthis order:

1. Conceptual test. Walk through your code

Walk through your brute force with BUD
Optimimafion or try some.of these ideas:

like you would for a detailed code review.
2. Unusual or non-standard code.

3. Hot spots, like arithmetic and null nodes.
4, Small test cases. it’s much faster than a big

test case and just as effective.

> Look for any unused info. You usually
;
.

need all the information in a problem,

> Solve it manually onan example, then

i

reverse engineer your theught process.

How did you solve it?

5. Special cases and edge cases.

> Solve it “incorrectly”
and then think about

And when you find bugs, fix them carefully!

why the algorithm fails. Can you fix those
issues?

im plem ent

> Make
a time vs. space tradeoff, Hash
tabies are especially usefull

Your goal is to write beautiful code.

Modularize your code fromthe

Walk Through + —

~~ =—— —

beginning and refactor to clean up
anything that isn’t beautiful.

Now that you have an optimal solution, walk

through your approach in detail. Make sure
you understand each detail before you start
coding.

62

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Vil | Technical Questions

We'll go through this flowchart in more detail.

What to Expect

Interviews are supposed to be difficult. If you don’t get every—or any—answer immediately, that’s okay!
That’s the normal experience, and it’s not bad.

Listen for guidance from the interviewer. The interviewer might take a more active or less active role in your
problem solving. The level of interviewer participation depends on your performance, the difficulty of the

question, what the interviewer is looking for, and the interviewer's own personality.
When you're given a problem (or when you're practicing), work your way through it using the approach
below.

1. Listen Carefully
You've likely heard this advice before, but I'm saying something a bit more than the standard “make sure
you hear the problem correctly” advice.
Yes, you do want to listen to the problem and make sure you heard it correctly. You do want to ask questions
about anything you're unsure about.
But I'm saying something more than that.
Listen carefully to the problem, and be sure that you’ve mentally recorded any unique information in the
problem.
For example, suppose a question starts with one of the following lines. It’s reasonable to assume that the

information is there for a reason.
-

“Given two arrays that are sorted, find ...”

You probably need to know that the data is sorted. The optimal algorithm for the sorted situation is
probably different than the optimal algorithm for the unsorted situation.
«

“Design an algorithm to be run repeatedly ona

server that ...”

The server/to-be-run-repeatedly situation is different from the run-once situation. Perhaps this means

that you cache data? Or perhapsit justifies some reasonable precomputation on the initial dataset?
It’s unlikely (although not impossible) that your interviewer would give you this information if it didn’t affect

the algorithm.
Many candidates will hear the problem correctly. But ten minutes into developing an algorithm, some of
the key details of the problem have been forgotten. Now they are in a situation where they actually can’t
solve the problem optimally.
Your first algorithm doesn’t need to use the information. But if you find yourself stuck, or you're still working

to develop something more optimal, ask yourself if you've used all the information in the problem.

You might even find it useful to write the pertinent information on the whiteboard.

2. Draw an Example
An example can dramatically improve your ability to solve an interview question, and yet so many candidates just try to solve the question in their heads.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

63

Vil | Technical Questions
When you hear a question, get out of your chair, go to the whiteboard, and draw an example.
There’s an art to drawing an example though. You want a good example.

Very typically, a candidate might draw something like this for an example of a binary search tree:

This is a bad example for several reasons. First, it’s too small. You will have trouble finding a pattern in such
a small example. Second, it’s not specific. A binary search tree has values. What if the numbers tell you
something about how to approach the problem? Third, it’s actually a special case. It’s not just a balanced
tree, but it’s also a beautiful, perfect tree where every node other than the leaves has two children. Special
cases can be very deceiving.
Instead, you want to create an example that is:

+

Specific. It should use real numbers or strings (if applicable to the problem).

-

Sufficiently large. Most examples are too small, by about 50%.

-

Nota special case. Be careful. It’s very easy to inadvertently draw a special case. If there’s any way your
example is a special case (even if you think it probably wont be a big deal), you should fix it.

Try to make the best example you can. If it later turns out your example isn't quite right, you can and should
fix it.

3. State a Brute Force

Once you have an example done (actually, you can switch the order of steps 2 and 3 in some problems),
state a brute force. It’s okay and expected that your initial algorithm won't be very optimal.

Some candidates don't state the brute force because they think it’s both obvious and terrible. But here’s the

thing: Even if it’s obvious for you, it's not necessarily obvious for all candidates. You don't want your interviewer to think that you're struggling to see even the easy solution.
It's okay that this initial solution is terrible. Explain what the space and time complexity is, and then dive
into improvements.

Despite being possibly slow, a brute force algorithm is valuable to discuss. It's a starting point for optimizations, and it helps you wrap your head around the problem.

4. Optimize

Once you have a brute force algorithm, you should work on optimizing it. A few techniques that work well
are:

1.

Look for any unused information. Did your interviewer tell you that the array was sorted? How can you
leverage that information?

2.

Use a fresh example. Sometimes, just seeing a different example will unclog your mind or help you see
a pattern in the problem.

3. Solve it “incorrectly.”
Just like having an inefficient solution can help you find an efficient solution, having
an incorrect solution might help you find a correct solution. For example, if you‘re asked to generate a

64

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Vil| Technical Questions
random value from a set such that al! values are equally likely, an incorrect solution might be one that
returns a semi-random value: Any value could be returned, but some are more likely than others. You

can then think about why that solution isn’t perfectly random. Can you rebalance the probabilities?
4. Make time vs. space tradeoff. Sometimes storing extra state about the problem can help you optimize

the runtime.
5. Precompute information. Is there a way that you can reorganize the data (sorting, etc.) or compute some

values upfront that will help save time in the long run?
6. Use a hash table. Hash tables are widely used in interview questions and should be at the top of your
mind.
7. Think about the best conceivable runtime (discussed on page 72).

Walk through the brute force with these ideas in mind and look for BUD (page 67).

5. Walk Through

After you've nailed down an optimal algorithm, don't just dive into coding. Take a moment to solidify your
understanding ofthe algorithm.
Whiteboard coding is slow—very slow. So is testing your code and fixing it. As a result, you need to make

sure that you get it as close to “perfect” in the beginning as possible.
Walk through your algorithm and get a feel for the structure of the code. Know what the variables are and
when they change.

:

What about pseudocode? You can write pseudocode if you'd like. Be careful about what you
write. Basic steps (“(1) Search array. (2) Find biggest. (3) Insert in heap.’) or brief logic (“if p<

q, move p. else move q”) can be valuable. But when your pseudocode starts having for loops
that are written in plain English, then you’re essentially just writing sloppy code. It'd probably be
faster to just write the code.

If you don’t understand exactly what you're about to write, you'll struggle to code it. It will take you longer

to finish the code, and you’re more likely to make major errors.
6. implement
Now that you have an optimal algorithm and you know exactly what you're going to write, go ahead and
implement it.
Start coding in the far top left corner of the whiteboard (you'll need the space). Avoid “line creep” (where

each line of code is written an awkward slant). It makes your code look messy and can be very confusing
when working in a whitespace-sensitive language, like Python.
Remember that you only have a short amount of code to demonstrate that you're a great developer. Every-

thing counts. Write beautiful code.
Beautiful code means:
*

Modularized code. This shows good coding style. It also makes things easier for you. !f your algorithm

uses a matrix initialized to {{1,

2,

3},

{4,

5,

6},

...}, don't waste your time writing this

initialization code. Just pretend you have a function initIncrementalMatrix(int

size). Fill in

the details later if you need to.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

65

Vil | Technical Questions —
-

Error checks. Some interviewers care a lot about this, while others don’t.

A good compromise here is to

add a todo and then just explain out loud what you’d like to test.

«

Use other classes/structs where appropriate. If you need to return a list of start and end points from
a function, you could do this as a two-dimensional array. It’s better though to do this as a

list of

StartEndPair (or possibly Range) objects. You don’t necessarily have to fill in the details for the class.
Just pretend it exists and deal with the details later if you have time.
*

Good variable names. Code that uses single-letter variables everywhere is difficult to read. That's not to
say that there’s anything wrong with using i and j, where appropriate (such as in a basic for-loop iterating through an array). However, be careful about where you do this. If you write something like int

i = startOfChild( array), there might be a better name for this variable, such as StartChild.
Long variable names can also be slow to write though. A good compromise that most interviewers will

be okay with is to abbreviate it after the first usage. You can use StartChild the first time, and then
explain to your interviewer that you will abbreviate this as sc after this.
The specifics of what makes good code vary between interviewers and candidates, and the problem itself.
Focus on writing beautiful code, whatever that means to you.
If you see something you can refactor later on, then explain this to your interviewer and decide whether or
not it’s worth the time to do so. Usually it is, but not always.
If you get confused (which is common), go back to your example and walk through

it again.

7. Test

You wouldn’t check in code in the real world without testing it, and you shouldn't “submit” code in an interview without testing it either.

There are smart and not-so-smart ways to test your code though.
What many candidates do is take their earlier example and test it against their code. That might discover
bugs, but it'll take a really long time to do so. Hand testing is very slow. If you really did use a nice, big

example to develop your algorithm, then it'll take you a very long time to find that little off-by-one error at
the end of your code.
Instead, try this approach:
1. Start with a“conceptual”
test. A conceptual test means just reading and analyzing what each line of code
does. Think about it like you’re explaining the lines of code for a code reviewer. Does the code do what
you think it should do?
2. Weird looking code. Double check that line of code that says x

=

length

-

2. Investigate that for

loop that starts ati = 1.While you undoubtedly did this for a reason, it's really easy to get it just slightly
wrong.

3. Hot spots. You’ve coded long enough to know what things are likely to cause problems. Base cases
in recursive code. Integer division. Null nodes in binary trees. The start and end of iteration through a

linked list. Double check that stuff.
4. Small test cases. This is the first time we use an actual, specific test case to test the code. Don’t use that
nice, big 8-element array from the algorithm part. Instead, use a 3 or 4 element array. It'll likely discover
the same bugs, but it will be much faster to do so.
5. Special cases. Test your code against null or single element values, the extreme cases, and other special
cases.

66

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Vil | Technical Questions
When you find bugs (and you probably will), you should of course fix them. But don’t just make the first
correction you think of. Instead, carefully analyze why the bug occurred and ensure that your fix is the best
one.

>» Optimize & Solve Technique #1: Look for BUD
This is perhaps the most useful approach I’ve found for optimizing problems. “BUD
is a silly acronym for:

-

Bottlenecks

+

Unnecessary work

¢

Duplicated work

These are three of the most common things that an algorithm can’waste’time doing. You can walkthrough

your brute force looking for these things. When you find one of them, you can then focus on getting rid of it.
If it’s still not optimal, you can repeat this approach on your current best algorithm.

Bottlenecks

A bottleneck is a part of your algorithm that slows down the overall runtime. There are two common ways
this occurs:
+

You have one-time work that slows down your algorithm. For example, suppose you have a two-step

algorithm where you first sort the array and then you find elements with a particular property. The first

step isO(N log N) and the second step isO(N). Perhaps you could reduce the second step to O(log
N) or O0(1), but would it matter? Not too much. It’s certainly not a priority, as theO(N log N) is the
bottleneck. Until you optimize the first step, your overall algorithm willbe O(N log N).
You have a chunk of work that’s done repeatedly, like searching. Perhaps you can reduce that from O(N)

toO(log N) or even0O(1). That will greatly speed up your overall runtime.
Optimizing a bottleneck can make a big difference in your overall runtime.

'

Example: Given an array of distinct integer values, count the number of pairs of integers that
have difference k. For example, given the array {1, 7,

5, 9,

2, 12,

k = 2, there are four pairs with difference 2:(1,

(3,

(5,

3),

5),

3}andthedifference
7),

(7,

9).

A brute force algorithm is to go through the array, starting from the first element, and then search through
the remaining elements (which will form the other side of the pair). For each pair, compute the difference.

if the difference equals k, increment a counter of the difference.
The bottleneck here is the repeated search for the “other side” of the pair. It’s therefore the main thing to
focus on optimizing.

How can we more quickly find the right “other side”? Well, we actually know the other side of (x,

x + korx

-

?). It’s

k.If we sorted the array, we could find the other side for each of the N elements in O( log

N) time by doing a binary search.

We now have a two-step algorithm, where both steps take O(N

log

N) time. Now, sorting is the new

bottleneck. Optimizing the second step won't help because the first step is slowing us down anyway.
We just have to get rid of the first step entirely and operate on an unsorted array. How can we find things
quickly in an unsorted array? With a hash table.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

67

VII | Technical Questions
Throw everything in the array into the hash table. Then, to look up ifx + korx -

k exist in the array, we

just look it up in the hash table. We can do this in O(N) time.
Unnecessary Work

Example: Print all positive integer solutions to the equation a? + b? = c? + d’wherea,b,c,
and d are integers between 1 and 1000.

A brute force solution will just have four nested for loops. Something like:
Et

n=

2

for a from 1 ton

1000

for b from 1 to n

3
4

for c from 1 ton

5

for d from 1 to n

6

if a? + b? == c? + @?

7

print

a,

b,

c,

d

This algorithm iterates through all possible values of a, b, €, and d and checks if that combination happens
to work.

It's unnecessary
to continuechecking for other possiblevalues of d. Only one could work. We should at least
break after we find a valid solution.
4

n=

2

for a from 1 ton

3

1000

for b from 1 ton

4

for c from 1 ton

5

for d from 1 ton

&

if a+b == CO +

7

print a,

8

break // break out of d’s loop

b,

c,

d

This won't make a meaningful change to the runtime—our algorithm is still O(N*)—but it’s still a good,
quick fix to make.

Is there anything else that is unnecessary? Yes. If there's only one valid d value for each (a, b, c), then we can

just compute it. This is just simple math: d= Va? +b’-c’.
1

n= 1000

@

for a from 1ton

3

for b from 1 to n

A

for c from 1 ton

5

d = pow(a? + b*

&

if a + b? == c?

i]

-

c*?,

1/3) // Will round to int

+ @ // Validate that the value works

print a, b, c, d

The if statement on line 6 is important. Line 5 will always find a value for d, but we need to check that it’s
the right integer value.

This will reduce our runtime from O(N*) to O(N?).
Duplicated Work
Using the same problem and brute force algorithm as above, let’s look for duplicated work this time.

The algorithm operates by essentially iterating through all (a,
Pairs to find if there are any matches to that (a,

68

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

b) pair.

6) pairs and then searching all (c,

d)

VII | Technical Questions
Why do we keep on computing all (c, d) pairsforeach (a,

b) pair? We should just create the list of (c,

d) pairs once. Then, when we have an (a,

b) pair, find the matches within the (c, d)

locate the matches by inserting each (cy

d) pair into a hash table that maps from the sum to the pair (or,

list. We can quickly

n =

1000

for c from 1 ton
for d from 1 ton

result = c? + d?

append (c, d) to list at value map[result]
for a from 1 ton
for b from 1 to n

result = a + b

Ww

Cw

ce un

fe ta

NO be

rather, the list of pairs that have that sum).

list = map.get(result)

16

for each

41

print

pair in list
a,

b,

pair

Actually, once we have the map of all the (c,
generate the (a,
OF ut fa ie ho
9)

10

for each result,

fod

d) pairs, we can just use that directly. We don’t need to

b) will already be in the map.

1000

for c from 1ton

COM

n =

b) pairs.Each (a,

for d from 1 ton

result = c? + d3

append (c, d) to list at value map[result]
list

in map

for each pair1 in list
for each pair2 in list
print

pairi,

pair2

This will take our runtime to O(N?).

> Optimize & Solve Technique #2: DIY (Do It Yourself)
The first time you heard about how to find an element in a sorted array (before being taught binary search),
you probably didn’t jump to, “Ah ha! We'll compare the target element to the midpoint and then recurse on
the appropriate half”

And yet, you could give someone who has no knowledge of computer science an alphabetized pile of
student papers and they'll likely implement something like binary search to locate a student's paper.

They'll probably say, “Gosh, Peter Smith? He'll be somewhere in the bottom of the stack.’ They'll pick a
random paper in the middle(ish), compare the name to “Peter Smith’, and then continue this process on the

remainder of the papers. Although they have no knowledge of binary search, they intuitively
“get it.’
Our brains are funny like this. Throw the phrase “Design an algorithm” in there and people often get all

jumbled up. But give people an actual example—whether
just of the data (e.g., an array) or of the real-life
parallel (e.g., a pile of papers)—and their intuition gives them a very nice algorithm.
I've seen this come up countless times with candidates. Their computer algorithm is extraordinarily slow,
but when asked to solve the same problem manually, they immediately do something quite fast. (And it’s

not too surprisingly, in some sense. Things that are slow for a computer are often slow by hand, Why would
you put yourself through extra work?)

Therefore, when you get a question, try just working it through intuitively on a real example. Often a bigger
example will be easier.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

69

VII | Technical Questions
;

Example: Given a smaller string s and a bigger string b, design an algorithm to find all permutations of the shorter string within the longer one. Print the location of each permutation.

Think for a moment about how you'd solve this problem. Note permutations are rearrangements of the
string, so the characters in s can appear in any order in b. They must be contiguous though (not split by
other characters).
If you're like most candidates, you probably thought of something like: Generate all permutations of s and

then look for each in b. Since there are S! permutations, this willtakeO(S! * B) time, where S is the length
of s and B is the length of b.

This works, but it’s an extraordinarily slow algorithm. It’s actually worse than an exponential algorithm. if s
has 14 characters, that’s over 87 billion permutations. Add one more character into s and we have 15 times
more permutations. Ouch!

Approacheda different way, you could develop a decent algorithm fairly easily. Give yourself a big example,
like this one:
Ss:

abbc

b:

cbabadcbbabbcbabaabccbabc

Where are the permutations of s within b? Don’t worry about how you're doing it. Just find them. Evena 12
year old could do this!

(No, really, go find them. I'll wait!)
I've underlined below each permutation.
s:

abbc

b:

cbabadcbbabbcbabaabccbabc

Did you find these? How?

Few people—even those who earlier came up with the O(S!

* B) algorithm—actually generate all the

permutations of abbc to locate those permutations in b. Almost everyone takes one of two (very similar)
approaches:

1. Walk through b and look at sliding windows of 4 characters (since s has length 4). Check if each window
is a permutation of s.

2. Walk through b. Every time you see a character in s, check if the next four (the length of s) characters
are a permutation of s.

Depending on the exact implementation of the “is this a permutation’ part, you'll probably get a runtime of

eitherO(B * S),O(B * S log S),or0(B * S*).None ofthese are the most optimal algorithm (there
is anO(B) algorithm), but it’s a lot better than what we had before.
Try this approach when you're solving questions. Use a nice, big example and intuitively—manually, that
is—solve it for the specific example. Then, afterwards, think hard about how you solved it. Reverse engineer
your own approach.
Be particularly aware of any “optimizations” you intuitively or automatically made. For example, when you

were doing this problem, you might have just skipped right over the sliding window with "d" in it, since
“d" isn't in abbc. That’s an optimization your brain made, and it’s something you should at least be aware
of in your algorithm.

70

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Vil | Technical Questions
> Optimize & Solve Technique #3: Simplify and Generalize
With Simplify and Generalize, we implement a multi-step approach. First, we simplify or tweak some
constraint, such as the data type. Then, we solve this new simplified version of the problem. Finally, once we

have an algorithm for the simplified problem, we try to adapt it for the more complex version.

Example: A ransom note can be formed by cutting words out of a magazine to form a new

sentence. How would you figure out if a ransom note (represented as a string) can be formed
from a given magazine (string)?

To simplify the problem, we can modify it so that we are cutting characters out of a magazine instead of
whole words.

We can solve the simplified ransom note problem with characters by simply creating an array and counting
the characters. Each spot in the array corresponds to one letter. First, we count the number of times each
character in the ransom note appears, and then we go through the magazine to see if we have all of those
characters.
When we generalize the algorithm, we do a very similar thing. This time, rather than creating an array with
character counts, we create a hash table that maps from a word to its frequency.

> Optimize & Solve Technique #4: Base Case and Build
With Base Case and Build, we solve the problem first for a base case (e.g.,n

=

1) and then try to build up

from there. When we get to more complex/interesting cases (often n = 3 or n = 4), we try to build those
using the prior solutions.

Example: Design an algorithm to print all permutations of a string. For simplicity, assume all cha F
acters are unique.

Consider a test string abcdefg.
Case

“a”

Case

“ab”

-->

{“a”}

-->

Case “abc” -->

{“ab”,

“ba”}

?

This is the first “interesting” case. If we had the answer to P(“ab”), how could we generate P(“abc”’)?
Well, the additional letter is “c,’ so we can just stick c in at every possible point. That is:
P(“abc”)

= insert “c” into all locations of all strings

P(“abc”)

insert

“c” into all locations of all

P(“abc”) = merge({“cab”,
P(“abc”)

=

{“cab”,

“acb”,

“acb”,

“abc”},

“abc”,

“cba”,

{“cba”,
“bea”,

in P(“ab”)

strings
“bca”,

in {“ab”,“ba”}
bac’”})

bac”’}

Now that we understand the pattern, we can develop a general recursive algorithm.
We generate all permu-

tations ofa string s,...S, by “chopping off” the last character and generating all permutations of s,...
S__4- Once we have the list of all permutations of S,...S_

,, we iterate through this list. For each string in it,

we insert S, into every location ofthe string.
Base Case and Build algorithms often lead to natural recursive algorithms.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com
| 6th Edition

| 71

Vil | Technical Questions
>» Optimize & Solve Technique #5: Data Structure Brainstorm
This approach is certainly hacky, but it often works. We can simply run througha list of data structures and

try to apply each one. This approach is useful because solving a problem may be trivial once it occurs to us
to use, Say, a tree.

Example: Numbers are randomly generated and stored into an (expanding) array. How would

you keep track of the median?

Our data structure brainstorm might look like the following:
-

Linked list? Probably not. Linked lists tend not to do very well with accessing and sorting numbers.

-

Array? Maybe, but you already have an array. Could you somehow keep the elements sorted? That's

probably expensive. Let's hold off on this and return to it if it’s needed.
Binary tree? This is possible, since binary trees do fairly well with ordering. In fact, if the binary search

tree is perfectly balanced, the top might be the median. But, be careful—if there’s an even number of
elements, the median is actually the average of the middle two elements.
The middle two elements can't
both be at the top. This is probably a workable algorithm, but let's come backto

it.

Heap? A heap is really good at basic ordering and keeping track of max and mins. This is actually
interesting—if you had two heaps, you could keep track of the bigger half and the smaller half of the

elements. The bigger half is kept in a min heap, such that the smallest element in the bigger half is at

the root. The smaller half is kept in a max heap, such that the biggest element of the smaller half is at the
root. Now, with these data structures, you have the potential median elements at the roots. If the heaps

are no longer the same size, you can quickly “rebalance” the heaps by popping an element off the one
heap and pushing it onto the other.
Note that the more problems you do, the more developed your instinct on which data structure to apply

will be. You will also develop a more finely tuned instinct as to which of these approaches is the most useful.

> Best Conceivable Runtime (BCR)
Considering the best conceivable runtime can offer a useful hint for some problem.
The best conceivable runtime is, literally, the best runtime you could conceive of a solution to a problem
having. You can easily prove that there is no way you could beat the BCR.

For example, suppose you want to compute the number of elements that two arrays (of length A and B)

have in common. You immediately knowthat you can’t do thatin betterthanO(A + B) time because you
have to “touch” each element in eacharray.O(A + B) isthe BCR.
Or, suppose you want to print all pairs of values within an array. You know you can't do that in better than

O(N?) time because there are N? pairs to print.
Be careful though! Suppose your interviewer asks you to find all! pairs with sum k within an array (assuming
all distinct elements). Some candidates who have not fully mastered the concept of BCR will say that the

BCR is O( N*) because you have to look at N? pairs.
That's not true. Just because you want all pairs with a particular sum doesn’t mean you have to look at ail

pairs. In fact, you don't.

72

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Vil | Technical Questions
What's the relationship between the Best Conceivable Runtime and Best Case Runtime? Nothing

at all! The Best Conceivable Runtime is for a problem and is largely a function of the inputs and
outputs. It has no particular connection to a specific algorithm. In fact, if you compute the

Best Conceivable Runtime by thinking about what your algorithm does, you're probably doing

something wrong. The Best Case Runtime is for a specific algorithm (and is a mostly useless
value).

Note that the best conceivable runtime is not necessarily achievable. It says only that you can’t do better
than it.

An Example of How to Use BCR

Question: Given two sorted arrays, find the number of elements in common.
The arrays are the same length
and each has all distinct elements.
Let’s start with a good example. We'll underline the elements in common.
A:

13

27

35

4@

49

55

59

B:

17

35

39

4@

55

58

60

A brute force algorithm for this problem is to start with each element in A and search for it in B. This takes

O(N*) time since for each of N elements in A, we need to do an O(N) searchin B.
The BCR is O(N), because we know we will have to look at each element at least once and there are 2N total
elements. (If we skipped an element, then the value of that element could change the result. For example,
if we never looked at the last value in B, then that 60 could be a 59.)

Let’s think about where we are right now. We have an O(N?) algorithm and we want to do better than
that—potentially, but not necessarily, as fast as O(N).
Brute

Force:

O(N?)

Optimal Algorithm:

?

BCR:

O(N)

What is between O(N*) and O(N)? Lots of things. Infinite things actually. We could theoretically have an
algorithm that’s O(N

log(log(log(log(N) )))). However, both in interviews and in real life, that

runtime doesn't come up a whole lot.

Try to remember this for your interview because it throws a lot of people off. Runtime is not a

multiple choice question. Yes, it’s very common to have a runtime that’s O(log N),O(N),O(N
log N),O(N?) orO( 2"). But you shouldn't assume that something has a particular runtime by
sheer process of elimination. In fact, those times when you're confused about the runtime and
so you want to take a guess—those are the times when you're most likely to have a non-obvious

and less common runtime. Maybe the runtime is O( N’K ), where N is the size of the array andK is
the number of pairs. Derive, don’t guess.

Most likely, we're driving towards an O(N) algorithm oranO(N log N) algorithm. What does that tell us?
If we imagine our current algorithm’s runtime asO(N x N),then gettingtoO(N) orO(N x log N) might
mean reducing that second O(N) in the equation toO(1) orO(log N).

This is one way that BCR can be useful. We can use the runtimes to get a “hint” for what we need
to reduce.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

73

Vil | Technical Questions
That second O(N) comes from searching. The array is sorted. Can we search in a sorted array in faster than
O(N)

time?

Why, yes. We can use binary search to find an element in a sorted array inO(log N) time.
We now have an improved algorithm: O(N log N).
Brute Force:

O(N?)

Improved Algorithm: O(N log N)
Optimal Algorithm:

?

BCR:

O(N)

Can we do even better? Doing better likely means reducing that O(log N) to0(1).
In general, we cannot search an array—even a sorted array—in better than O(log N) time. This is not the
general case though. We're doing this search over and over again.

The BCR is telling us that we will never, ever have an algorithm that’s faster than O(N). Therefore, any work
we doinO(N) time is a “freebie’—it won't impact our runtime.
Re-read the list of optimization tips on page 64. Is there anything that can help us?

One ofthe tips there suggests precomputing or doing upfront work. Any upfront work we do in O(N) time
is a freebie. It won't impact our runtime.

[

This is another place where BCR can be useful. Any work you do that’s less than or equal to the
BCR is ‘free,’ in the sense that it won't impact your runtime. You might want to eliminate it eventually, but it’s not a top priority just yet.

Our focus is still on reducing search from O(log N) toO(1). Any precomputation that’s O(N) or less is
“free”

In this case, we can just throw everything in B into a hash table. This will take O(N) time. Then, we just go
through A and look up each element in the hash table. This look up (or search) is O(1), so our runtime is

O(N).
Suppose our interviewer hits us with a question that makes us cringe: Can we do better?

No, not in terms of runtime. We have achieved the fastest possible runtime, therefore we cannot optimize
the big O time. We could potentially optimize the space complexity.

[

This is another place where BCR is useful. It tells us that we're “done” in terms of optimizing the
runtime, and we should therefore turn our efforts to the space complexity.

In fact, even without the interviewer prompting us, we should have a question mark with respect to our
algorithm. We would have achieved the exact same runtime if the data wasn't sorted. So why did the interviewer give us sorted arrays? That's not unheard of, but it is a bit strange.
Let's turn back to our example.
A:

13

27

35

48

49

55

59

B:

17

35

39

40

55

58

60

We're now looking for an algorithm that:

*

Operates inO(1) space (probably),
We already have an O(N) space algorithm with optimal runtime. If
we want to use less additional space, that probably means no additional space. Therefore, we need to
drop the hash table.

74

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Vil| Technical Questions
-

Operates in O(N) time (probably). We'll probably want to at least match the current best runtime, and
we know we can't beat it.

+

Uses the fact that the arrays are sorted.

Our best algorithm that doesn't use extra space was the binary search one. Let's think about optimizing
that.
We can try walking through the algorithm.

Dn
Ss WN

1. Doa binary search in B forA[@] = 13. Not found.
Do a binary search in B for A[ 1]

27. Not found.

Do a binary search in B for A[2] = 35.Found at B[1].

Do a binary search in B forA[3] = 49.Found at B[5].
Do a binary search in B for
A[ 4 ]

49. Not found.

Think about BUD. The bottleneck is the searching. Is there anything unnecessary or duplicated?

It’s unnecessary that A[3]

=

40 searched over all of B. We know that we just found 35 at B[1], so 40

certainly won't be before 35.
Each binary search should start where the last one left off.
In fact, we don't need to do a binary search at all now. We can just do a linear search. As long as the linear

search in B is just picking up where the last one left off, we know that we're going to be operating in linear
time.

1. Doa linear
search
in B
for A[@ |

13. Start at B[ 0]

17. Stop at B[@]

2. Doa linear searchin
B for A[1] = 27.StartatB[@]

= 17.StopatB[1]

17.Not found.

=

35.Not found.

3. Doa linear search in B for A[2] = 35. Start atB[1] = 35.StopatB[1] = 35.Found.
4. Do alinear search in B forA[3]

= 40.Start atB[2]

=

39.StopatB[3]

5.

Doa linear search in B forA[4]

= 49.StartatB[3]

= 4@.Stop atB[4]

6.

.

= 40. Found.

=

55.Found.

This algorithm is very similar to merging two sorted arrays. It operates in O(N) time and O(1) space.
We have now reached the BCR and have minimal space. We know that we cannot do better.

This is another way we can use BCR. If you ever reach the BCR and have 0(1) additional space,
then you know that you can't optimize the big O time or space.

Best Conceivable Runtime is not a “real” algorithm concept, in that you won't find it in algorithm textbooks.
But 1 have found it personally very useful, when solving problems myself, as well as while coaching people
through problems.
If you're struggling to grasp it, make sure you understand big O time first (page 38). You need to master

it. Once you do, figuring out the BCR of a problem should take literally seconds.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

75

VII | Technical Questions
> Handling Incorrect Answers
One of the most pervasive—and dangerous—rumors is that candidates need to get every question right.
That's not quite true.

First, responses to interview questions shouldn't be thought of as “correct” or “incorrect.” When | evaluate
how someone performed in an interview, | never think, “How many questions did they get right?" It’s not a
binary evaluation. Rather, it’s about how optimal their final solution was, how long it took them to get there,
how much help they needed, and how clean was their code. There

is a range of factors.

Second, your performance is evaluated in comparison to other candidates. For example, if you solve a ques-

tion optimally in

15 minutes, and someone else solves an easier question in five minutes, did that person do

better than you? Maybe, but maybe not. if you are asked really easy questions, then you might be expected
to get optimal solutions really quickly. But if the questions are hard, then

anumber of mistakes are expected.

Third, many—possibly most—questions are too difficult to expect even a strong candidate to immediately
spit out the optimal algorithm. The questions | tend to ask would take strong candidates typically 20 to 30
minutes to solve.
In evaluating thousands of hiring packets at Google, | have only once seen a candidate have a “flawless” set

of interviews. Everyone else, including the hundreds who got offers, made mistakes.

> When You've Heard a Question Before
if you've heard a question before, admit this to your interviewer. Your interviewer is asking you these questions in order to evaluate your problem-solving skills. If you already know the question, then you arent
giving them the opportunity to evaluate you.

Additionally, your interviewer may find it highly dishonest if you don't reveal that you know the question.
(And, conversely, you'll get big honesty points if you do reveal this.)

> The “Perfect” Language for Interviews
At many of the top companies, interviewers aren't picky about languages. They‘re more interested in how
well you solve the problems than whether you knowa specific language.
Other companies though are more tied to a language and are interested in seeing how well you can code
in a particular language.

If you're given a choice of languages, then you should probably pick whatever language you're most

comfortable with.
That said, if you have several good languages, you should keep in mind the following.
Prevalence
It's not required, but it is ideal for your interviewer to know the language you're coding in. A more widely
known language can be better for this reason.

Language Readability
Even if your interviewer doesn't know your programming language, they should hopefully be able to basically understand it. Some languages are more naturally readable than others, due to their similarity to other
languages.

76

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Vii} Technical Questions
For example, Java is fairly easy for people to understand, even if they haven't worked in it. Most people have
worked in something with Java-like syntax, such as C and C++.

However, languages such as Scala or Objective C have fairly different syntax.

Potential Problems

Some languages just open you up to potential issues. For example, using C++ means that, in addition to all
the usual bugs you can have in your code, you can have memory management and pointer issues.
Verbosity

Some languages are more verbose than others. Java for example is a fairly verbose language as compared
with Python. Just compare the following code snippets.
Python:
1

dict = {“left”:

1,

“right”: 2,

“top”:

3,

“bottom”:

4};

Java:

1

HashMap<String,

2.

diet put CAGrt”, 1);

Integer> dict = new HashMap<String,

3

dict.put(“right”,

&

dict.put(“top”,

§

dict.put(“bottom”’,

Integer>().

2);

3);
4);

However, some of the verbosity of Java can be reduced by abbreviating code. | could imagine a candidate
ona whiteboard writing something like this:
1

HM<S,

2

dict.put(“left”,

I> dict = new HM<S,

ae

Been

I>().

1);

“right”,

A

“top?s

5

“bottom”,

2

3
4

The candidate would need to explain the abbreviations, but most interviewers wouldn’t mind.
Ease of Use
Some operations are easier in some languages than others. For example, in Python, you can very easily
return multiple values from a function. In Java, the same action would require a new class. This can be
handy for certain problems.
Similar to the above though, this can be mitigated by just abbreviating code or presuming methods that
you don’t actually have. For example, if one language provides a function to transpose a matrix and another

language doesn't, this doesn't necessarily make the first language much better to code in (for a problem
that needs such a function). You could just assume that the other language has a similar method.

>» What Good Coding Looks Like
You probably know by now that employers want to see that you write “good, clean” code. But what does this
really mean, and how is this demonstrated in an interview?

Broadly speaking, good code has the following properties:
*

-

Correct: The code should operate correctly on all expected and unexpected inputs.

Efficient: The code should operate as efficiently as possible in terms of both time and space. This “efftciency” includes both the asymptotic (big O) efficiency and the practical, real-life efficiency. That is, a

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

77

Vil | Technical Questions
constant factor might get dropped when you compute the big O time, but in real life, it can very much
matter.

+

Simple: If you can do something in 10 lines instead of 100, you should. Code should be as quick as
possible for a developer to write.

«

Readable: A different developer should be able to read your code and understand what it does and
how it does it. Readable code has comments where necessary, but it implements things in an easily

understandable way. That means that your fancy code that does a bunch of complex bit shifting is not
necessarily good code.
-

Maintainable: Code should be reasonably adaptable to changes during the life cycle of a product and
should be easy to maintain by other developers, as well as the initial developer.

Striving for these aspects requires a balancing act. For example, it’s often advisable to sacrifice some degree
of efficiency to make code more maintainable, and vice versa.
You should think about these elements as you code during an interview. The following aspects of code are
more specific ways to demonstrate the earlier list.

Use Data Structures Generously

Suppose you were asked to write a function to add two simple mathematical expressions which are of
the form Ax? +

Bx’ +

...

(where the coefficients and exponents can be any positive or negative real

number). That is, the expression is a sequence of terms, where each term is simply a constant times an
exponent. The interviewer also adds that she doesn’t want you to have to do string parsing, so you can use
whatever data structure you'd like to hold the expressions.

There are a number of different ways you can implement this.
Bad Implementation

A bad implementation would be to store the expression as a single array of doubles, where the kth element

corresponds to the coefficient of the x* term in the expression. This structure is problematic because it
could not support expressions with negative or non-integer exponents. It would also require an array of

1000 elements to store just the expression x76,
int[]

sum(double[]

expr1,

double[]

expr2)

{

BS

1
Wi

}

Less Bad implementation

A slightly less bad implementation would be to store the expression as a set of two arrays, coefficients
and exponents. Under this approach, the terms of the expression are stored in any order, but “matched”

such that the ith term of the expression is represented by coefficients[i]

* x®*ponentsfi],

Under this implementation, if coefficients[p]

= m, then the pth term is

=

kandexponents[p]

kx". Although this doesn’t have the same limitations as the earlier solution, it’s still very messy. You need
to keep track of two arrays for just one expression. Expressions could have “undefined” values if the arrays
were of different lengths. And returning an expressionis annoying because you need to return two arrays.
1

pre sum(double[]

coeffsi,

double[]

expon1,

2
a

78

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

double[]

coeffs2,

double[]

expon2)

{

Vil | Technical Questions
Good Implementation
A good implementation for this problem is to design your own data structure for the expression.
1

class

double exponent;

3
4

ExprTerm {

double coefficient;

2

}

5

6

ExprTerm[]

?
3

sum(ExprTerm[] expri, ExprTerm[] expr2) {

$780

}

Some might (and have) argued that this is “over-optimizing.’ Perhaps so, perhaps not. Regardless of whether
you think it’s over-optimizing, the above code demonstrates that you think about how to design your code
and don't just slop something together in the fastest way possible.

Appropriate Code Reuse
Suppose you were asked to write a function to check if the value of a binary number (passed as a string)
equals the hexadecimal representation of a string.
An elegant implementation of this problem leverages code reuse.
1

boolean compareBinToHex(String binary,

2

int n1 = convertFromBase(binary,

3

int n2 = convertFromBase(hex,

4

if (n1 < @

iS

n2 < @)

{

16);

{

return false;

6

yr

7

8

||

String hex)

2);

return

ni

==

n2;

}

9

1@

int convertFromBase(String number,

Th

if

(base < 2

||

12

int value = @;

16

for

int base)

(base > 10 && base

(int i = number.length()

-

1;

!= 16))
i >= @;

{

return -1;
i--)

14

int digit = digitToValue(number.charAt(i));

ns

if (digit < @

16

return

17

||

{

digit >= base) {

-1;

}

ig

int exp = number.length()

18

value += digit * Math.pow(base,

28

}

2i

return value;

-

1 -

i;
exp);

ey
23

24

int digitToValue(char c)

{

...

}

We could have implemented separate code to convert a binary number and a hexadecimal code, but

this just makes our code harder to write and harder to maintain. Instead, we reuse code by writing one
convertFromBase method and one digit ToValue method.

Modular
Writing modular code means separating isolated chunks of code out into their own methods. This helps
keep the code more maintainable, readable, and testable.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com| 6th Edition

79

Vil | Technical Questions
Imagine you are writing code to swap the minimum and maximum element in an integer array. You could
implement it all in one method like this:
1.

~=void swapMinMax(int[]

2

int minIndex = @;

4

for (int i = 1;

4

array) {

i < array.length;

i++) {

if (array[i] < array[minIndex]) {
minIndex = i;

5

6

?

}

5

&

9

int maxIndex = @;

18

for (int i = 1;

11

if (array[i]

12

i < array.length;

i++)

{

> array[maxIndex]) {

maxIndex = i;

13

}

14

}

iu;

16

int temp = array[minIndex];

4?

array[minIndex] = array[maxIndex];

18

i9

array[maxIndex]

= temp;

}

Or, you could implement in a more modular way by separating the relatively isolated chunks of code into
their own methods.
Nd be

void swapMinMaxBetter(int[]

array)

{

int minIndex = getMinIndex(array)
;

fe UW

int maxIndex = getMaxIndex(array)
;

md ch or

maxIndex)
;

int getMinIndex(int[]

array)

{

...

}

Uo OO

swap(array, minIndex,

}

int getMaxIndex(int[]

array)

{

...

}

void swap(int[] array,

int m,

int n)

{

...

}

While the non-modular code isn't particularly awful, the nice thing about the modular code is that it’s easily

testable because each component can be verified separately. As code gets more complex, it becomes
increasingly important to write it in a modular way. This will make it easier
to read and maintain. Your interviewer wants to see you demonstrate these skills in your interview.

Flexible and Robust

Just because your interviewer only asks you to write code to check if a normal tic-tac-toe board has a
winner, doesn’t mean you must assume that it’s a 3x3 board. Why not write the code in a more general way
that implements it for an NXN board?

Writing flexible, general-purpose code may also mean using variables instead of hard-coded values or
using templates / generics to solve a problem. If we can write our code to solve a more general problem,
we should.

Of course, there is a limit. !f the solution is much more complex for the general case, and it seems unnecessary at this point in time, it may be better just to implement the simple, expected case.

Error Checking

One sign of a careful coder is that she doesn't make assumptions about the input. Instead, she validates that
the input is what it should be, either through ASSERT statements or if-statements.

80

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Vil | Technical Questions
For example, recall the earlier code to convert a number from its base i (e.g., base 2 or base 16) representation to an int.
1

int convertToBase(String number,

2

if (base < 2 ||

3

int value = @;

4

for

int base)

{

(base > 10 && base !=16)) return -1;

(int i = number.length()

- 1;

i >= @;

i--)

5

int digit = digitToValue(number.charAt(i));

‘

if (digit < @

7

return

||

digit >= base)

}

ie

value += digit * Math.pow(base,

int exp = number.length()

1

- 1 - i;
exp);

}

12

13

{

-1;

8

9

{

return value;

}

In line 2, we check to see that base is valid (we assume that bases greater than 10, other than base 16, have
no standard representation in string form). In line 6, we do another error check: making sure that each digit
falls within the allowable range.

Checks like these are critical in production code and, therefore, in interview code as well.
Of course, writing these error checks can be tedious and can waste precious time in an interview. The

important thing is to point out that you would write the checks. If the error checks are much more than a
quick if-statement, it may be best to leave some space where the error checks would go and indicate to your
interviewer that you'll fill them in when you're finished with the rest of the code.

>» Don’t Give Up!
| know interview questions can be overwhelming, but that’s part of what the interviewer is testing. Do you
rise to a challenge, or do you shrink back in fear? {t's important that you step up and eagerly meet a tricky
problem head-on. After all, remember that interviews are supposed to be hard. It shouldn't be a surprise
when you get a really tough problem.
For extra “points,” show excitement about solving hard problems.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

81

Vill
The Offer and Beyond

Just when you thought you could sit back and relax after your interviews, now you're faced with the postinterview stress: Should you accept the offer? Is it the right one? How do you decline an offer? What about

deadlines? We'll handle a few of these issues here and go into more details about how to evaluate an offer,
and how to negotiate it.

> Handling Offers and Rejection
Whether you're accepting an offer, declining an offer, or responding to a rejection, it matters what you do.

Offer Deadlines and Extensions
When companies extend an offer, there’s almost always a deadline attached to it. Usually these deadlines

are one to four weeks out. If you're still waiting to hear back from other companies, you can ask for an exten-

sion. Companies will usually try to accommodate this, if possible.

Declining an Offer

Even if you aren't interested in working for this company right now, you might be interested in working for it

in a few years. (Or, your contacts might one day move to amore exciting company.) It’s in yourbest interest
to decline the offer on good terms and keep a line of communication open.
When you decline an offer, provide a reason that is non-offensive and inarguable. For example, if you were

declining a big company for a startup, you could explain that you feel a startup is the right choice for you
at this time. The big company can't suddenly”become’
a startup, so they can’t argue about your reasoning.

Handling Rejection

Getting rejected is unfortunate, but it doesn’t mean that you're not a great engineer. Lots of great engineers
do poorly, either because they don’t test well” on these sort of interviewers, or they just had an “off” day.
Fortunately, most companies understand that these interviews aren’t perfect and many good engineers get
rejected. For this reason, companies are often eager to re-interview previously rejected candidate. Some

companies will even reach out to old candidates or expedite their application because of their prior performance.

When you do get the unfortunate call, use this as an opportunity to build a bridge to re-apply. Thank your
recruiter
for his time, explain that you're disappointed but that you understand their position, and ask when

you can reapply to the company.

82

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Vill | The Offer and Beyond
You can also ask fOr feedback from the recruiter. In most cases, the big tech companies won't offer feedback, but there are some companies that will. lt doesn’t hurt to ask a question like, “Is there anything you'd
suggest | work on fOr next time?”

> Evaluating the Offer
Congratulations! You got an offer! And—if you're lucky—you may have even gotten multiple offers. Your

recruiter's job is now to do everything he can to encourage you to accept it. How do you know if the
company ts the right fit for you? We'll go through a few things you should consider in evaluating an offer.

The Financial Package

Perhaps the biggest mistake that candidates make in evaluating an offer is looking too much at their salary.
Candidates often look so much at this one number that they wind up accepting the offer that is worse financially. Salary is just one part of your financial compensation. You should also look at:

+

Signing Bonus, Relocation, and Other One Time Perks: Many companies offer a signing bonus and/or relocation. When comparing offers, it’s wise to amortize this cash over three years (or however long you
expect to stay).

*

Cost of Living Difference: Taxes and other cost of living differences can make a big difference in your takehome pay. Silicon Valley, for example, is 30+% more expensive than Seattle.

«

Annual Bonus: Annual bonuses at tech companies can range from anywhere from 3% to 30%. Your
recruiter might reveal the average annual bonus, but if not, check with friends at the company.

*

Stock Options and Grants: Equity compensation can form another big part of your annual compensation.
Like signing bonuses, stock compensation between companies can be compared by amortizing it over
three years and then lumping that value into salary.

Remember, though, that what you learn and how a company advances your career often makes far more of

a difference to your long term finances than the salary. Think very carefully about how much emphasis you
really want to put on money right now.

Career Development

As thrilled as you may be to receive this offer, odds are, in a few years, you'll start thinking about interviewing again. Therefore, it's important that you think right now about how this offer would impact your
career path. This means considering the following questions:
*

How good does the company’s name look on my resume?

*

How much will | learn? Will | learn relevant things?

-

What is the promotion plan? How do the careers of developers progress?

*

If want to move into management, does this company offer a realistic plan?

«

Is the company or team growing?

*

{f1do want to leave the company, is it situated near other companies I'm interested in, or will | need to
move?

The final point is extremely important and usually overlooked. If you only have a few other companies to
pick from in your city, your career options will be more restricted. Fewer options means that you're less likely
to discover really great opportunities.

CrackingTheCoding!nterview.com | 6th Edition

83

Vill | The Offer and Beyond
Company Stability

All else being equal, of course stability is a good thing. No one wants to be fired or laid off.
However, all else isn’t actually equal. The more stable companies are also often growing more slowly.
How much emphasis you should put on company stability really depends on you and your values. For some
candidates, stability should not be a large factor. Can you fairly quickly find a new job?

If so, it might be

better to take the rapidly growing company, even if it’s unstable? If you have work visa restrictions or just

aren't confident in your ability to find something new, stability might be more important.

The Happiness Factor
Last but not least, you should of course consider how happy you will be. Any of the following factors may
impact that:

-

The Product: Many people look heavily at what product they are building, and of course this matters a bit.
However, for most engineers, there are more important factor, such as who you work with.

+

Manager and Teammates: When people say that they love, or hate, their job, it’s often because of their

teammates and their manager. Have you met them? Did you enjoy talking with them?
«

Company Culture: Culture is tied to everything from how decisions get made, to the social atmosphere,
to how the company is organized. Ask your future teammates how they would describe the culture.

«

Hours:
Ask future teammates about how long they typically work, and figure out if that meshes with your
lifestyle. Remember, though, that hours before major deadlines are typically much longer.

Additionally, note that if you are given the opportunity to switch teams easily (like you are at Google and
Facebook), you'll have an opportunity to find a team and product that matches you well.

> Negotiation
Years ago, | signed up for a negotiations class. On the first day, the instructor asked us to imagine a scenario
where we wanted to buy a car. Dealership A sells the car for a fixed $20,000—no negotiating. Dealership B

allows us to negotiate. How much would the car have to be (after negotiating) for us to go to Dealership B?
(Quick! Answer this for yourself!)
On average, the class said that the car would have to be $750 cheaper. In other words, students were willing
to pay $750 just to avoid having to negotiate for an hour or so. Not surprisingly, in a class poll, most of these
students also said they didn’t negotiate their job offer. They just accepted whatever the company gave
them.

Many of us can probably sympathize with this position. Negotiation isn’t fun for most of us. But still, the

financial benefits of negotiation are usually worth it.
Do yourselfa favor. Negotiate. Here are some tips to get you started.
7.

Just Doit. Yes, | know it’s scary; (almost) no one likes negotiating. But it’s so, so worth it. Recruiters will not

revoke an offer because you negotiated, so you have little to lose. This is especially true if the offer is from
a larger company. You probably won't be negotiating with your future teammates.

2. Have a Viable Alternative. Fundamentally, recruiters negotiate with you because they’re concerned you
may not join the company otherwise. If you have alternative options, that will make their concern much
more real.

3.

Havea

Specific “Ask”: It’s more effective to ask for an additional $7000 in salary than to just ask for “more”

84

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

Vill | The Offer and Beyond
After all, if you just ask for more, the recruiter could throw in another $1000 and technically have satisfied your wishes.

4. Overshoot: In negotiations, people usually don’t agree to whatever you demand. It’s a back and forth
conversation. Ask for a bit more than you're really hoping to get, since the company will probably meet
you in the middle.

5.

Think Beyond Salary: Companies are often more willing to negotiate on non-salary components, since
boosting your salary too much could mean that they’re paying you more than your peers. Consider

asking for more equity or a bigger signing bonus. Alternatively, you may be able to ask for your relocation benefits in cash, instead of having the company pay directly for the moving fees. This is a great
avenue for many college students, whose actual moving expenses are fairly cheap.
6.

Use Your Best Medium: Many people will advise you to only negotiate over the phone. To a certain extent,

they're right; it is better to negotiate over the phone. However, if you don't feel comfortable on a phone
negotiation, do it via email. It’s more important that you attempt to negotiate than that you do it via a
specific medium.

Additionally, if you're negotiating with a big company, you should know that they often have “levels” for
employees, where all employees at a particular level are paid around the same amount. Microsoft has a
particularly well-defined system for this. You can negotiate within the salary range for your level, but going

beyond that requires bumping up a level. If you’re looking for a big bump, you'll need to convince the
recruiter and your future team that your experience matches this higher level—a difficult, but feasible,
thing to do.

> On the Job
Navigating your career path doesn't end at the interview. In fact, it’s just getting started. Once you actually
join a company, you need to start thinking about your career path. Where will you go from here, and how
will you get there?

Set a Timeline

It’s

acommon story: you join a company, and you're psyched. Everything is great. Five years later, you're still

there. And it’s then that you realize that these last three years didn’t add much to your skill set or to your
resume. Why didn’t you just leave after two years?
When you're enjoying your job, it’s very easy to get wrapped up in it and not realize that your career is not

advancing. This is why you should outline your career path before starting a new job. Where do you want
to be in ten years? And what are the steps necessary to get there? In addition, each year, think about what

the next year of experience will bring you and how your career or your skill set advanced in the last year.
By outlining your path in advance and checking in on it regularly, you can avoid falling into this complacency trap.

Build Strong Relationships

When you want to move on to something new, your network will be critical. After all, applying online is
tricky; a personal referral is much better, and your ability to do so hinges on your network.
At work, establish strong relationships with your manager and teammates. When employees leave, keep in

touch with them. Just a friendly note a few weeks after their departure will help to bridge that connection
from a work acquaintance to a personal acquaintance.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

85

Vill | The Offer and Beyond
This same approach applies to your personal life. Your friends, and your friends of friends, are valuable

connections. Be open to helping others, and they'll be more likely to help you.

Ask for What You Want
While some managers may really try to grow your career, others will take a more hands-off approach. It’s up

to you to pursue the challenges that are right for your career.
Be (reasonably) frank about your goals with your manager. !f you want to take on more back-end coding
projects, say so. If you’d like to explore more leadership opportunities, discuss how you might be able to

do so.
You need to be your best advocate, so that you can achieve goals according to your timeline.

Keep Interviewing

Set a goal of interviewing at least once a year, even if you aren't actively looking for a new job. This will keep
your interview skills fresh, and also keep you in tune with what sorts of opportunities (and salaries) are out
there.

If you get an offer, you don‘ have to take it. It will still build a connection with that company in case you
want to join at a later date.

86

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Interview Questions

IX
Join us at www.CrackingTheCodinginterview.com to download the complete solutions,

solutions in other programming languages, discuss problems from this

report issues, view this book’s errata, and seek additional advice.

contribute or view

book with other readers, ask questions

Arrays and Strings

opefully, all readers of this book are familiar with arrays and strings, so we won't bore you with such

details. Instead, we'll focus on some of the more common techniques and Issues with these data structures,

Please note that array questions and string questions are often interchangeable. That is, a question that this
book states using an array may be asked instead as a string question, and vice versa.

> Hash Tables
A hash table is a data structure that maps keys to values for highly efficient lookup. There are a number of
ways of implementing this. Here, we will describe a simple but common implementation.
In this simple implementation, we use an array of linked lists and a hash code function. To insert a key
(which might be a string or essentially any other data type) and value, we do the following:
1. First, compute the key’s hash code, which will usually be an int or long. Note that two different keys
could have the same hash code, as there may be an infinite number of keys and a finite number of ints.

2. Then, map the hash code to an index in the array. This could be done with something like hash (key )
4 array_length. Two different hash codes could, of course, map to the same index.
3. At this index, there is a linked list of keys and values. Store the key and value in this index. We must use a
linked list because of collisions:
you could have two different keys with the same hash code, or two different
hash codes that map to the same index.
To retrieve the value pair by its key, you repeat this process. Compute the hash code from the key, and then

compute the index from the hash code. Then, search through the linked list for the value with this key.

If the number of collisions is very high, the worst case runtime is O(N), where N is the number of keys.
However, we generally assume a good implementation that keeps collisions to a minimum, in which case

the lookup time is 0(1).
Sg 10390

abc2—980 —— 0

hi

re!

aa

abc

aaa, a

“qs? —— 897 ———-»!

88

en

-

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

2

Vv

Sa

eek

qs

Chapter 1 | Arrays and Strings
Alternatively, we can implement the hash table with a balanced binary search tree, This givesus anO(log N)
lookup time. The advantage of this is potentially using less space, since we no longer allocate a large array. We
can also iterate through the keys in order, which can be useful sometimes.

» ArrayList & Resizable Arrays
In some languages, arrays (often called lists in this case) are automatically resizable. The array or list will

grow as you append items. In other languages, like Java, arrays are fixed length. The size is defined when
you create the array.

When you need an array-like data structure that offers dynamic resizing, you would usually use an ArrayList.

An ArrayList is an array that resizes itself
as needed while still providing O(1) access. A typical implementation is that when the array is full, the array doubles in size. Each doubling takes O(n) time, but happens so
rarely that its amortized insertion time is stillO(1).
1

ArrayList<String> merge(String[]

2
3

for

(String w

: words)

4

for

(String w

:

5
6

words,

String[]

more)

{

ArrayList<String> sentence = new ArrayList<String>();
more)

sentence.add(w)
;
sentence.add(w)
;

return sentence;

}

This is an essential data structure for interviews. Be sure you are comfortable with dynamically resizable
arrayS/lists in whatever language you will be working with. Note that the name of the data structure as well

as the “resizing factor” (which is 2 in Java) can vary.
Why is the amortized insertion runtime O(1)?
Suppose you have an array of size N. We can work backwards to compute how many elements we copied
at each capacity increase. Observe that when we increase the array to K elements, the array was previously

half that size. Therefore, we needed to copy "% elements.
final capacity increase

:

n/2 elements to

copy

previous capacity increase:

n/4 elements to

copy

previous

capacity increase:

n/8 elements to

copy

previous

capacity increase:

n/16 elements to

copy

sea

second capacity increase

:

2 elements to copy

first capacity increase

:

1 element to copy

Therefore,
the totalnumber
of copies to
insert
N
elements is roughly ‘% + Me ~ vy, t+.ee

t 24+

1, whichis just less than N.

if the sum of this series isn’t obvious to you, imagine this: Suppose you have a kilometer—long
walk to the store. You walk 0.5 kilometers, and then 0.25 kilometers, and then 0.125 kilometers,
and so on. You will never exceed one kilometer (although you'll get very close to it).

Therefore, inserting N elements takes O(N) work total. Each insertion is O(1) on average, even though
some insertions take O(N
) time in the worst case.

> StringBuilder
Imagine you were concatenating a list of strings, as shown below. What would the running time ofthis code

be? For simplicity, assume that the strings are all the same length (call this x) and that there are n strings.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

89

Chapter 1 | Arrays and Strings
1

String joinwords(String[] words)

2

String sentence = “”;

3

for (String w : words)

4

sentence

5

{

{

= sentence + w;

}

6

return

7

sentence;

4}

On each concatenation, a new copy of the string is created, and the two strings are copied over, character
by character. The first iteration requires us to copy X Characters. The second iteration requires copying 2x
characters.
The third iteration requires 3x, and so on. The total time therefore isO(x + 2x + ... + nx).

This reduces to O( xn?).

:

Why is itO(xn*)? Because1 + 2 +

... + nequalsn(n+1)/2, orO0(n?).

StringBuilder can help you avoid this problem. StringBuilder simply creates a resizable array of all
the strings, copying them back to a string only when necessary.
1

String joinwWords(String[] words)

{

2

StringBuilder sentence = new StringBuilder();

3

for (String w

4

: words)

{

sentence. append(w) ;

5

}

6

return sentence. toString ();

~

}

A good exercise to practice strings, arrays, and general data structures is to implement your own version of

StringBuilder, HashTable and ArrayList.
Additional Reading: Hash Table Collision Resolution (pg 636), Rabin-Karp Substring Search (pg 636).

interview Questions

1.1

Is Unique: Implement an algorithm to determine if a string has all unique characters. What if you
cannot use additional data structures?
Hints: #44, #1177, #132

1.2

Check Permutation: Given two strings, write a method to decide if one is a permutation of the

other.
Hints: #1, #84, #122, #131

1.3

URLify: Write a method to replace all spaces in a string with ‘%20". You may assume that the string
has sufficient space at the end to hold the additional characters, and that you are given the “true”
length of the string. (Note: If implementing in Java, please use a character array so that you can
perform this operation in place.)
EXAMPLE

Input:

“Mr John Smith

*,

Output;

“Mr%2I0John%20Smith”

Hints: #53, #118

90

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

13

Chapter 1 | Arrays and Strings
1.4

Palindrome Permutation: Given a string, write a function to check if it is a permutation of a palindrome. A palindrome is a word or phrase that is the same forwards and backwards. A permutation
is a rearrangement of letters. The palindrome does not need to be limited to just dictionary words.
EXAMPLE

Input:

Tact Coa

Output:

True (permutations: “taco cat”, “atco cta”, etc.)

Hints: #106, #121, #134, #136

1.5

One Away: There are three types of edits that can be performed on strings: insert a character,
remove a character, or replace a character. Given two strings, write a function to check if they are
one edit (or zero edits) away.
EXAMPLE

pale,

ple

-> true

pales,

pale

-> true

pale,

bale

-> true

pale,

bake -> false

Hints: #23, #97, #130

1.6

String Compression: Implement a method to perform basic string compression using the counts
of repeated characters. For example, the string aabcccccaaa would become a2b1c5a3. if the
“compressed” string would not become smaller than the original string, your method should return
the original string. You can assume the string has only uppercase and lowercase letters (a - z).
Hints: #92, #110

1.7

Rotate Matrix: Given an image represented by an NXN matrix, where each pixel in the image is 4

bytes, write a method to rotate the image by 90 degrees. Can you do this in place?
Hints: #51,

1.8

#100

Zero Matrix: Write an algorithm such that if an element in an MXN matrix is 0, its entire row and
column are set to 0.
Hints: #17, #74, #102

1.9

String Rotation: Assume you have

amethod isSubstring which checks if one word is a substring

of another. Given two strings, $1 and s 2, write code to check if s 2 is a rotation of $1 using only one
callto isSubstring (eg.,"waterbottle’is a rotation of"erbottlewat’).
Hints: #34, #88, #704

Additional Questions: Object-Oriented Design (#7.12), Recursion (#8.3), Sorting and Searching (#10.9), C++
(#12.11), Moderate Problems (#16.8, #16.17, #16.22), Hard Problems (#17.4, #17.7, #17.13, #17.22, #17.26).
Hints start on page 653.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

91

Linked Lists

linked list is a data structure that represents a sequence of nodes. In a singly linked list, each node
points to the next node in the linked list. A doubly linked list gives each node pointers to both the next
node and the previous node.

| at

Lal

5

2

13

V

1 beg

V

The following diagram depicts a doubly linked list:

7 ja——|
3

Unlike an array, a linked list does not provide constant time access to a particular “index” within the list.
This means that if you'd like to find the Kth element in the list, you will need to iterate through K elements.

The benefit of a linked list is that you can add and remove items from the beginning of the list in constant
time. For specific applications, this can be useful.

> Creating a Linked List
The code below implements a very basic singly linked list.
i

class Node {

2

Node next = null;

3

int data;

4

5

public Node(int d) {

5

data = d;

?

}

&

9

void appendToTtail(int d)

18

Node end

il

Node n = this;

12

while

13

n

(n.next

!= null)

{

= n.next;

14

}

45

n.next = end;

16

{

= new Node(d);

}

17

3}

in this implementation, we don't have a LinkedList data structure. We access the linked list through a
reference to the head Node of the linked list. When you implement the linked list this way, you need to be
a bit careful. What if multiple objects need a reference to the linked list, and then the head of the linked list
changes? Some objects might still be pointing to the old head.

92

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Chapter 2 | Linked Lists
We could, if we chose, implement a LinkedList class that wraps the Node class. This would essentially

just have a single member variable: the head Node. This would largely resolve the earlier issue.
Remember that when you’re discussing a linked list in an interview, you must understand whether it is a
singly linked list or a doubly linked list.

> Deleting a Node froma Singly Linked List
Deleting a node from a linked list is fairly straightforward. Given a node n, we find the previous node prev
and set prev.next equal to n.next. If the list is doubly linked, we must also update n.next to set
n.next. prev equal ton.prev. The important things to remember are (1) to check for the null pointer
and (2) to update the head or tail pointer as necessary.

Additionally, if you implement this code in C, C++ or another language that requires the developer to do
memory management, you should consider if the removed node should be deallocated.
1

Node deleteNode(Node head,

2

int d)

{

Node n = head;

3

A

if (n,data == d) {

5

return head.next;

6

/ *moved

head */

}

?

&

while

9
18
11

ie?

!= null)

{
{

n.next

= n,next.next;

return

head;

/

*head

didn’t

change

*/

}

13

n

14

=

n.next;

}

15

16

(n.next

if (n.next.data == d)

return head;

}

>» The “Runner” Technique
The “runner” (or second pointer) technique is used in many linked list problems. The runner technique

means that you iterate through the linked list with two pointers simultaneously, with one ahead of the
other. The “fast” node might be ahead by a fixed amount, or it might be hopping multiple nodes for each
one node that the “slow” node iterates through.

For example, suppose you had a linked list a,->a,->...->a,->b,->b,->...->b,

and you wanted to

rearrange it into a,->b,->a,->b,->...->a_->b_. You do not know the length of the linked list (but you
do know that the length is an even number).
You could have one pointer p1 (the fast pointer) move every two elements for every one move that p2

makes, When p1 hits the end ofthe linked list, p2 will be at the midpoint. Then, move p1 back to the front
and begin “weaving” the elements. On each iteration, p2 selects an element and inserts it after p1.

> Recursive Problems
A number of linked list problems rely on recursion, If you’re having trouble solving a linked list problem,
you should explore if a recursive approach will work. We won't go into depth on recursion here, since a later
chapter is devoted to it.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

93

Chapter
2 | Linked Lists
However, you should remember that recursive algorithms take at least O(n) space, where n is the depth
of the recursive call. All recursive algorithms can be implemented iteratively, although they may be much
more complex.

Interview Questions
2.1

Remove Dups: Write code to remove duplicates from an unsorted linked list.
FOLLOW UP

How would you solve this problem if a temporary buffer is not allowed?
Hints: #9, #40

2.2.

~+Return Kth to Last: Implement an algorithm to find the kth to last element of a singly linked list.
Hints: #8, #25, #41, #67, #126

2.3.

Delete Middle Node: Implement an algorithm to delete a node in the middle (i.e., any node but
the first and last node, not necessarily the exact middle) of a singly linked list, given only access to
that node.
EXAMPLE

Input: the node c from the linked list a- >b- >c - >d- >e->F
Result: nothing is returned, but the new linked list looks like

a- >b- >d->e->F

Hints: #72

2.4

— Partition: Write code to partition a linked list around a value x, such that all nodes less than x come

before all nodes greater than or equal to x. If x is contained within the list, the values of x only need
to be after the elements less than x (see below). The partition element x can appear anywhere in the

“right partition”; it does not need to appear between the left and right partitions.
EXAMPLE

Input:

3

-> 5

Output:

Be

>

Bl

-> 8
2

-> 5
a)

-> 10 -> 2 -> 1 [partition=5]

TO

os

=e

8

Hints: #3, #24

pg Ziz

94

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Chapter
2 | Linked Lists
2.5

Sum Lists: You have two numbers represented bya linked list, where each node contains a single
digit. The digits are stored in reverse order, such that the 1's digit is at the head of the list. Write a
function that adds the two numbers and returns the sum as a linked list.
EXAMPLE

Input:(7-> 1

-> 6) + (5

Output:2

1

->

-> 9

-> 2).Thatis,617 + 295.

-> 9.Thatis, 912.

FOLLOW UP

Suppose the digits are stored in forward order. Repeat the above problem.
EXAMPLE

Input:(6

-> 1

-> 7) + (2

Output:9

->

->

1

-> 9

-> 5).Thatis,617 + 295.

2.Thatis,912.

Hints: #7, #30, #71, #95, #109
Be 214

2.6

Palindrome: Implement a function to check if a linked list is a palindrome.
Hints: #5, #13, #29, #61, #101

2.7

Intersection: Given two (singly) linked lists, determine if the two lists intersect. Return the inter-

secting node. Note that the intersection is defined based on reference, not value. That is, if the kth
node of the first linked list is the exact same node (by reference) as the jth node of the second
linked list, then they are intersecting.
Hints: #20, #45, #55, #65, #76, #93, #111, #120, #129

2.8

Loop Detection: Given a circular linked list, implement an algorithm that returns the node at the

beginning of the loop.
DEFINITION

Circular linked list: A (corrupt) linked list in which a node's next pointer points to an earlier node, so

as to make a loop in the linked list.
EXAMPLE

Input:

A -> B

Output:

C

-> C -> D -> E

-> C ithe
sameC
as
earlier]

Hints: #50, #69, #83, #90

Additional Questions: Trees and Graphs (#4.3), Object-Oriented Design (#7.12), System Design and Scal-

ability (#9.5), Moderate Problems (#16.25), Hard Problems (#17.12).
Hints start on page 653.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

95

Stacks and Queues

uestions on stacks and queues will be much easier to handle if you are comfortable with the ins and
outs of the data structure. The problems can be quite tricky, though. While some problems may be
slight modifications on the original data structure, others have much more complex challenges.

> Implementing a Stack
The stack data structure is precisely what it sounds like: a stack of data. In certain types of problems, it can
be favorable to store data in a stack rather than in an array.
A stack uses LIFO (last-in first-out) ordering. That is, as in a stack of dinner plates, the most recent item
added to the stack is the first item to be removed.
It uses the following operations:

-

pop():Remove the top item from the stack.

+

push(item):
Add an item to the top ofthe stack.

-

peek(): Return the top of the stack.

-

isEmpty (): Return true if and only if the stack is empty.

Unlike an array, a stack does not offer constant-time access to the ith item. However, it does allow constanttime adds and removes, as it doesn't require shifting elements around.
We have provided simple sample code to implement a stack. Note that a stack can also be implemented
using a linked list, if items were added and removed from the same side.
1

public class MyStack<T> {

2

private static class StackNode<T> {

3

private T data;

4

private StackNode<T> next;

5

&

public StackNode(T data)

?

this.data

8
2

{

= data;

}
}

18

1

private StackNode<T> top;

a2

i

public T pop()

{

14

if

a5

T item = top.data;

96

(top == null)

throw new EmptyStackException();

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Chapter 3 | Stacks and Queues
18

top = top.next;

return item;

1?

18

}

19

22

public void push(T item) {

21

StackNode<T> t = new StackNode<T>(item)
;

22

t.next = top;

23

top = t;

24

}

25

26

public T peek() {

ae

if (top == null) throw new EmptyStackException();

28

return top.data;

23

}

36

31

public boolean isEmpty()

32

return top == null;

33
34

{

}
}

One case where stacks are often useful is in certain recursive algorithms. Sometimes you need to push
temporary data onto a stack as you recurse, but then remove them as you backtrack (for example, because
the recursive check failed). A stack offers an intuitive way to do this.
A stack can also be used to implement a recursive algorithm iteratively. (This is a good exercise! Take a
simple recursive algorithm and implement it iteratively.)

> Implementing a Queue
A queue implements FIFO (first-in first-out) ordering. As in a line or queue at a ticket stand, items are
removed from the data structure in the same order that they are added.
It uses the operations:

+

add(item): Add an item to the end of the list.

*

remove(): Remove the first item in the list.

+

peek(): Return the top of the queue.

-

isEmpty (): Return true if and only if the queue is empty.

A queue can also be implemented with a linked list. In fact, they are essentially the same thing, as long as
items are added and removed from opposite sides.

1
2

public class MyQueue<T> {
private

static class QueueNode<xT>

3

private T data;

4

private QueueNode<T> next;

{

5
6

public QueueNode(T data)

7

8
9

}

ii

private QueueNode<T> first;

Le

private QueueNode<T> last;

12

{

this.data = data;

}

af
14

public void

add(T item)

{

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

97

Chapter 3 | Stacks and Queues
45

QueueNode<T> t = new QueueNode<T>(item)
;

16

if (last

!= null)

{

last.next = t;

17

18
a9

}
last = t;

20

if (first

== null)

{

first = last;

21
22

}

23

}

24

public T remove() {

25
26

if (first == null) throw new NoSuchElementException(
);

2?

T data = first.data;

28
23

first = first.next;

if (first == null) {
last = null;

38

31

}

32

return data;

33

}

34

35

public T peek()

36

{

if (first == null) throw new NoSuchElementException(
);

37

return first.data;

38

}

39

48

public boolean isEmpty() {

Al

return first

42

== null;

}

43

}

It is especially easy to mess up the updating of the first and last nodes in a queue. Be sure to double check
this.

One place where queues are often used is in breadth-first search or in implementing a cache.
In breadth-first search, for example, we used a queue to store a list of the nodes that we need to process.

Each time we process a node, we add its adjacent nodes to the back of the queue. This allows us to process
nodes in the order in which they are viewed.

Interview Questions
3.1

Three in One: Describe how you could use a single array to implement three stacks.
Hints: #2, #12, #38, #58

3.2

Stack Min: How would you design a stack which, in addition to push and pop, has a function min
which returns the minimum element? Push, pop and min should all operate inO(1) time.
Hints: #27, #59, #78

98

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Chapter 3 | Stacks and Queues
3.3

Stack of Plates: Imagine a (literal) stack of plates. If the stack gets too high, it might topple.

Therefore, in real life, we would likely start a new stack when the previous stack exceeds some

threshold. Implement a data structure SetOfStacks that mimics this. SetOfStacks should be

composed of several stacks and should create a new stack once the previous one exceeds capacity.
SetOfStacks.push() and SetOfStacks.pop() should behave identically to a single stack
(that is, pop () should return the same values as it would if there were just a single stack).

FOLLOW UP

implementa function popAt (int index) which performs a pop operation ona

specific sub-stack.

Hints: #64, #87
pg 233

3.4

Queue via Stacks: Implement aMyQueue class which implements a queue using two stacks.
Hints: #98, #114

3.5

Sort Stack: Write a program to sort a stack such that the smallest items are on the top. You can use
an additional temporary stack, but you may not copy the elements into any other data structure

(such as an array). The stack supports the following operations: push, pop, peek, and isEmpty.
Hints: #15, #32, #43

ceva
3.6

234

Animal Shelter: An animal shelter, which holds only dogs and cats, operates ona strictly “first in, first
out” basis. People must adopt either the “oldest” (based on arrival time) of all animals at the shelter,
or they can select whether they would prefer a dog or a cat (and will receive the oldest animal of
that type). They cannot select which specific animal they would like. Create the data structures to
maintain this system and implement operations such as enqueue, dequeueAny, dequeueDog,

and dequeueCat.
You may use the built-in LinkedList data structure.
Hints: #22, #56, #63

Additional Questions: Linked Lists (#2.6), Moderate Problems (#16.26), Hard Problems (#17.9).
Hints start on page 653.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

99

Trees and Graphs

any interviewees find tree and graph problems to be some of the trickiest. Searching a tree is more

M complicated than searching in a linearly organized data structure such as an array or linked list. Addi-

tionally, the worst case and average case time may vary wildly, and we must evaluate both aspects of any
algorithm. Fluency in implementing a tree or graph from scratch will prove essential.

Because most people are more familiar with trees than graphs (and they're a bit simpler), we'll discuss trees
first. This is a bit out of order though, as a tree is actually a type of graph.

:

Note: Some of the terms in this chapter can vary slightly across different textbooks and other
sources. If you're used to a different definition, that’s fine. Make sure to clear up any ambiguity
with your interviewer.

> Types of Trees
A nice way to understand a tree is with a recursive explanation. A tree is a data structure composed of
nodes.

-

Each tree has a root node. (Actually, this isn’t strictly necessary in graph theory, but it’s usually how we
use trees in programming, and especially programming interviews.)

«

The root node has zero or more child nodes.

«=

Each child node has zero or more child nodes, and so on.

The tree cannot contain cycles. The nodes may or may not be in a particular order, they could have any data
type as values, and they may or may not have links back to their parent nodes.
A very simple class definition for Node is:
2.

class Node {

a

public String name;

3

public Node[]

children;

4}
You might also have a Tree class to wrap this node. For the purposes of interview questions, we typically

do not use a Tree class. You can if you feel it makes your code simpler or better, but it rarely does.
1

=6class Tree {

zZ

3

public Node root;

}

100

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Chapter
4 | Trees and Graphs
Tree and graph questions are rife with ambiguous details and incorrect assumptions. Be sure to watch out

for the following issues and seek clarification when necessary.

Trees vs. Binary Trees
A binary tree is a tree in which each node has up to two children. Not all trees are binary trees. For example,
this tree is not a binary tree. You could call it a ternary tree.

There are occasions when you might have a tree that is not a binary tree. For example, suppose you were

using a tree to represent a bunch of phone numbers. !n this case, you might use a 10-ary tree, with each
node having up to 10 children (one for each digit).
Anode is called a“leaf” node if it has no children.

Binary Tree vs. Binary Search Tree

A binary search tree is a binary tree in which every node fits a specific ordering property: all
descendents

<= n

<

all

left

right descendents.
This must be true for each node n.

The definition of a binary search tree can vary slightly with respect to equality. Under some definitions, the tree cannot have duplicate values. In others, the duplicate values will be on the right

or can be on either side. All are valid definitions, but you should clarify this with your interviewer.

Note that this inequality must be true for all of a node’s descendents, not just its immediate children. The
following tree on the left below is a binary search tree. The tree on the right is not, since 12 is to the left of 8.
A binary search tree.

Not a binary search tree.

Gio)
GQ) ©) &

(4)
0)
GQ)
&) &

When given a tree question, many candidates assume the interviewer means a binary search tree. Be sure
to ask. A binary search tree imposes the condition that, for each node, its left descendents are less than or
equal to the current node, which is less than the right descendents.

Balanced vs. Unbalanced
While many trees are balanced, not all are. Ask your interviewer for clarification here. Note that balancing a
tree does not mean the left and right subtrees are exactly the same size (like you see under “perfect binary
trees” in the following diagram).

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

101

Chapter
4 | Trees and Graphs
One way to think about it is that a “balanced” tree really means something more like “not terribly imbal-

anced.’ It’s balanced enough to ensure O(log

n) times for insert and find, but it’s not necessarily as

balanced as it could be.

Two common types of balanced trees are red-black trees (pg 639) and AVL trees (pg 637). These are
discussed in more detail in the Advanced Topics section.

Complete Binary Trees

A complete binary tree is a binary tree in which every level of the tree is fully filled, except for perhaps the
last level.
To the extent that the last level is filled, it is filled left to right.

not a complete binary tree

a complete binary tree

(5)

(9)

20)

Full Binary Trees
A full binary tree is a binary tree in which every node has either zero or two children. That is, no nodes have
only one child.

nota full binary tree

a full binary tree

Perfect Binary Trees

A perfect binary tree is one that is both full and complete. All leaf nodes will be at the same level, and this
level has the maximum number of nodes.

Note that perfect trees are rare in interviews and in real life, as a perfect tree must have exactly 2* - 1 nodes
(where k is the number oflevels). In an interview, do not assume a binary tree is perfect.

102

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
> Binary Tree Traversal
Prior to your interview, you should be comfortable implementing in-order, post-order, and pre-order

traversal.
The most common of these is in-order traversal.

In-Order Traversal

In-order traversal means to “visit” (often, print) the left branch, then the current node, and finally, the right
branch.
1

void inOrderTraversal(TreeNode node)

2

if

(node

!= null)

Zz

inOrderTraversal (node. left);

4

visit(node);
inOrderTraversal (node.right) ;

wd

on

5

{

{

}

}

When performed ona

binary search tree, it visits the nodes in ascending order (hence the name “in-order’).

Pre-Order Traversal

Pre-order traversal visits the current node before its child nodes (hence the namepre-order”).
i

=void preOrderTraversal(TreeNode node)

2

if

(node

!= null)

3

visit (node) ;

4

preOrderTraversal
(node. left)
;

5

6
7

{

{

preOrderTraversal
(node. right)
;

3}

}

In a pre-order traversal, the root is always the first node visited.

Post-Order Traversal

Post-order traversal visits the current node after its child nodes (hence the name “post-order”).
1

void postOrderTraversal(TreeNode node)

2

if (node

!= null)

3

postOrderTraversal(node.left)
;

4

postOrderTraversal(node.right)
;

visit(node)
;

we)

mr

5

{

{

}

}

In a post-order traversal, the root is always the last node visited.

> Binary Heaps (Min-Heaps and Max-Heaps)
We'll just discuss min-heaps here. Max-heaps are essentially equivalent, but the elements are in descending
order rather than ascending order.

A min-heap is a complete binary tree (that is, totally filled other than the rightmost elements on the last
level) where each node is smaller than its children.
The root, therefore, is the minimum element in the tree.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com
| 6th Edition

103

Chapter
4 | Trees and Graphs

Gs) (G0) @)
We have two key operations on a min-heap: insert and extract_min.
Insert

When we insert into a min-heap, we always start by inserting the element at the bottom. We insert at the
rightmost spot so as to maintain the complete tree property.

Then, we “fix” the tree by swapping the new element with its parent, until we find an appropriate spot for
the element. We essentially bubble up the minimum element.

Step 1: Insert2

Step 2: Swap
2 and 7

Step 3:
Swap
2
and 4

This takes O(log n) time, where n is the number of nodes in the heap.
Extract Minimum Element

Finding the minimum element ofa min-heap is easy: it’s always at the top. The trickier part is how to remove
it. (In fact, this isn’t that tricky.)
First, we remove the minimum element and swap it with the last element in the heap (the bottommost,
rightmost element). Then, we bubble down this element, swapping it with one of its children until the minheap property is restored.

Do we swap it with the left child or the right child? That depends on their values. There’s no inherent
ordering between the left and right element, but you'll need to take the smaller one in order to maintain
the min-heap ordering.

Step 1: Replace min with 80

This algorithm will also take O(log n)

104

Step 2: Swap 23 and 80

time.

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Step 3: Swap 32 and 80

Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
> Tries (Prefix Trees)
A trie (sometimes called a prefix tree) is a funny data structure. It comes up a lot in interview questions, but
algorithm textbooks don't spend much time on this data structure.
A trie is a variant of an n-ary tree in which characters are stored at each node. Each path down the tree may
represent a word.
The * nodes (sometimes called “null nodes") are often used to indicate complete words. For example, the

fact that there is a * node under MANY indicates that MANY is a complete word. The existence of the MA path
indicates there are words that start with MA.
The

actual

implementation

of these

*

nodes

might

be

a

special

type

of child

(such

as

a

TerminatingTrieNode, which inherits from TrieNode). Or, we could use just a boolean flag
terminates within the “parent” node.
A node in a trie could have anywhere from 1 through ALPHABET_SIZE

+ 1 children (or, 0 through

ALPHABET_SIZEif a boolean flag is used instead ofa * node).

Very commonly, a trie is used to store the entire (English) language for quick prefix lookups. While a hash
table can quickly look up whether a string is a valid word, it cannot tell us if a string is a prefix of any valid
words. A trie can do this very quickly.

How quickly? A trie can checkif a string is a valid prefix inO(K) time, where K is the length of the
string. This is actually the same runtime as a hash table will take. Although we often refer to hash

table lookups as being O(1) time, this isn’t entirely true. A hash table must read through all the
characters in the input, which takes O(K) time in the case of a word lookup.

Many problems involving lists of valid words leverage a trie as an optimization. In situations when we search

through the tree on related prefixes repeatedly (e.g., looking up M, then MA, then MAN, then MANY), we might
pass around a reference to the current node in the tree. This will allow us to just check if ¥ is a child of MAN,
rather than starting from the root each time.

> Graphs
A tree is actually a type of graph, but not all graphs are trees. Simply put, a tree isa connected graph without
cycles.

A graph is simply a collection of nodes with edges between (some of) them.
«

Graphs can be either directed (like the following graph) or undirected. While directed edges are like a

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

105

Chapter
4 | Trees and Graphs
one-way street, undirected edges are like a two-way street.
+

The graph might consist of multiple isolated subgraphs. If there is a path between every pair of vertices,
it is called a“connected graph.’

-

Thegraph can also have cycles (or not). An “acyclic graph’
is one without cycles.

Visually, you could draw a graph like this:

In terms of programming, there are two common ways to represent a graph.

Adjacency List
This is the most common way to represent a graph. Every vertex (or node) stores a list of adjacent vertices.

In an undirected graph, an edge like (a,

b) would be stored twice: once in a’s adjacent vertices and once

in b’s adjacent vertices.
A simple class definition for a graph node could look essentially the same as a tree node.
1

~=6class Graph {

ww NA

public Node[] nodes
;

Hur &

}
class Node {
public String name;

Qw

public Node[]

children;

}

The Graph class is used because, unlike in a tree, you cant necessarily reach all the nodes from a single node.
You don't necessarily need any additional classes to represent a graph. An array (or a hash table) of lists

1

RANON

6:

5

WwW

6:
ON pwWNnN

(arrays, arraylists, linked lists, etc.) can store the adjacency list. The graph above could be represented as:

This is a bit more compact, but it isn’t quite as clean. We tend to use node classes unless there’s a compelling
reason not to.

Adjacency Matrices
An adjacency matrix is an NxN boolean matrix (where N is the number of nodes), where a true value at

matrix[i][j] indicates an edge from node i to node j. (You can also use an integer matrix with Os and

1s.)
In an undirected graph, an adjacency matrix will be symmetric. In a directed graph, it will not (necessarily)
be.

106

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

O;1ol;lol;o
tw

i=)

OoO;yo!]o

—

Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs

The same graph algorithms that are used on adjacency lists (breadth-first search, etc.) can be performed
with adjacency matrices, but they may be somewhatless efficient. In the adjacency list representation, you
can easily iterate through the neighbors ofa node. In the adjacency matrix representation, you will need to
iteratethrough all the nodes to identify a node's neighbors.

> Graph Search
The two most common ways to search a graph are depth-first search and breadth-first search.
In depth-first search (DFS), we start at the root (or another arbitrarily selected node) and explore each
branch completely before moving on to the next branch. That is, we go deep first (hence the name depthfirst search) before we go wide.
In breadth-first search (BFS), we start at the root (or another arbitrarily selected node) and explore each

neighbor before going on to any of their children. That is, we go wide (hence breadth-first search) before
we go deep.

See the below depiction of a graph and its depth-first and breadth-first search (assuming neighbors are
iterated in numerical order).

o.

Depth-First Search

Breadth-First Search

1

4

Node @

2

Node 1

3

Node 4

Node @

2

Node 1

3

Node

3

4

Node

2

4

Node 5

5

Node 4

5

Node 3

6

Node 2

6

Node 5

Breadth-first search and depth-first search tend to be used in different scenarios. DFS is often preferred if we
want to visit every node in the graph. Both will work just fine, but depth-first search is a bit simpler.

However, if we want to find the shortest path (or just any path) between two nodes, BFS is generally better.
Consider representing all the friendships in the entire world in a graph and trying to find a path of friendships between Ash and Vanessa.

In depth-first search, we could takea pathlike Ash
-> Farah

-> Gayle -> Harry ->

->

Isabella

Brian
-> John

->

Carleton

->

Davis

->

Eric

->
Kari...and
then
find ourselves very

far away. We could go through most of the world without realizing that, in fact, Vanessa isAsh’s friend. We
will still eventually find the path, but it may take a long time. It also won't find us the shortest path.

In breadth-first search, we would stay close to Ash for as long as possible. We might iterate through many
of Ash’s friends, but we wouldn't go to his more distant connections until absolutely necessary. If Vanessa

is Ash’sfriend, or his friend-of-a-friend, we'll find this out relatively quickly.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

107

Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
Depth-First Search (DFS)
in DFS, we visit a node a and then iterate through each of a’s neighbors. When visiting a node b that is a

neighbor of a, we visit all of b's neighbors before going on to a’s other neighbors. That is, a exhaustively

searches b’s branch before any of its other neighbors.
Note that pre-order and other forms of tree traversal are a form of DFS. The key difference is that when
implementing this algorithm for a graph, we must check if the node has been visited. If we don't, we risk
getting stuck in an infinite foop.

The pseudocode below implements DFS.
1

void search(Node root)

2

if

(root == null)

3

visit(root);

{

return;

4

root.visited = true;

5

for each (Node n in root.adjacent)

6

if

7

(n.visited == false)

{

{

search(n);

8
2

t

10
}

i

Breadth-First Search (BFS)

BFS is a bit less intuitive, and many interviewees struggle with the implementation unless they are already
familiar with it. The main tripping point is the (false) assumption that BFS is recursive. It’s not. Instead, it
uses a queue.

In BFS, node a visits each of a’s neighbors before visiting any of their neighbors. You can think of this as

searching level by level out from a. An iterative solution involving a queue usually works best.
1

void search(Node root)

2

{

Queue queue = new Queue();

3}

root.marked = true;

4

queue .enqueue(root);

// Add to the end of queue

5

6

while (!queue.isEmpty()) {

7

Node r = queue.dequeue();

8

visit(r);

9

foreach

10

(Node n in r.adjacent)

{

if (n.marked == false) {

11

n.marked

dee.

queue .enqueue(n) ;

413

}

14

= true;

}

15
16

// Remove from the front of the queue

}
}

If you are asked to implement BFS, the key thing to remember is the use of the queue. The rest of the algorithm flows from this fact.

Bidirectional Search

Bidirectional search is used to find the shortest path between a source and destination node. It operates
by essentially running two simultaneous breadth-first searches, one from each node. When their searches
collide, we have found a path.

108

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs

Breadth-First Search

Bidirectional Search

Single search from s to t that
collides after four levels.

Two searches (one from s and one from t ) that
collide after four levels total (two levels each).

To see why this is faster, consider a graph where every node has at most k adjacent nodes and the shortest

path from node s to node t has length d.
+

Intraditional breadth-first search, we would search up to k nodes in the first “level” of the search. In the

second level, we would search up to k nodes for each of those first k nodes, so k? nodes total (thus far).

We would do this d times, so that’s O(k*) nodes.

In bidirectional search, we have two searches that collide after approximately 47 levels (the midpoint
of the path). The search from s visits approximately k°/?, as does the search from t. That's approximately
2 k4/?, or O(k2/), nodes total.

This might seem like a minor difference, but it’s not. It’s huge. Recall that (k9/?) *(k%”) = k*. The bidirectional search is actually faster by a factor of k9”.
Put another way: if our system could only support searching “friend of friend” paths in breadth-first search,
it could now likely support “friend of friend of friend of friend” paths. We can support paths that are twice
as long.

Additional Reading: Topologicai Sort (pg 632), Dijkstra’s Algorithm (pg 633), AVL Trees (pg 637), RedBlack Trees (pg 639).

Interview Questions
4.1

Route Between Nodes: Given a directed graph, design an algorithm to find out whether there is a
route between two nodes.
Hints: #127

Beers
4.2.

Minimal Tree: Given a sorted (increasing order) array with unique integer elements, write an algorithm to create a binary search tree with minimal height.
Hints: #19, #73, #116

4.3.

_ List of Depths: Given a binary tree, design an algorithm which creates a linked list of all the nodes
at each depth (e.g., if you have a tree with depth D, you'll have D linked lists).

Hints: #107, #123, #135

_py 243

CrackingTheCoding|nterview.com | 6th Edition

109

Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
4.4

Check Balanced: Implement a function to check if a binary tree is balanced. For the purposes of
this question, a balanced tree is defined to be a tree such that the heights of the two subtrees of any

node never differ by more than one.
Hints: #21, #33, #49, #105, #124

4.5

Validate BST: Implement a function to check if a binary tree is a binary search tree.
Hints: #35, #57, #86, #113, #128

4.6

Successor: Write an algorithm to find the “next” node (i.e., in-order successor) of a given node ina

binary search tree. You may assume that each node has a link to its parent.
Hints: #79, #91

4.7

Build Order: You are given a list of projects and a list of dependencies (which is a list of pairs of
projects, where the second project is dependent on the first project). All of a project’s dependencies
must be built before the project is. Find a build order that will allow the projects to be built. If there
is no valid build order, return an error.
EXAMPLE
Input:

projects:

a,

dependencies:
Output:
Ff, e,

a,

b,

c,

(a,
b,

d,

e,

d),

(f,

d,

f
b),

(b,

d),

(f,

a),

(d,

c)

c

Hints: #26, #47, #60, #85, #125, #133
rac8

aS ods

pes

4.8

First Common Ancestor: Design an algorithm and write code to find the first common ancestor
of two nodes in a binary tree. Avoid storing additional nodes in a data structure. NOTE: This is not
necessarily a binary search tree.
Hints: #10, #16, #28, #36, #46, #70, #80, #96

4.9

BST Sequences: A binary search tree was created by traversing through an array from left to right
and inserting each element. Given a binary search tree with distinct elements, print all possible
arrays that could have led to this tree.
EXAMPLE
Input:

Output: {2,

1,

3},{2,

3,

1}

Hints: #39, #48, #66, #82

11 0 | Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
4.10

Check Subtree: T1 and T2 are two very large binary trees, with T1 much bigger than T2. Create an
algorithm to determine if T2 is a subtree of T1.

A tree T2 is asubtree of T1 if there exists

anoden

in T1 such that the subtree of n is identical to T2.

That is, if you cut off the tree at node n, the two trees would be identical.
Hints: #4, #11, #18, #31, #37
Bate

4.11

Random Node: You are implementing a binary tree class from scratch which, in addition to

insert, find, and delete, has a method getRandomNode() which returns a random node
from the tree. All nodes should be equally likely to be chosen. Design and implement an algorithm
for getRandomNode, and explain how you would implement the rest of the methods.
Hints: #42, #54, #62, #75, #89, #99, #112, #119

4.12

Paths with Sum: You are given a binary tree in which each node contains an integer value (which
might be positive or negative). Design an algorithm to count the number of paths that sum to a
given value. The path does not need to start or end at the root or a leaf, but it must go downwards
(traveling only from parent nodes to child nodes).
Hints: #6, #14, #52, #68, #77, #87, #94, #103, #108, #115

Additional Questions: Recursion (#8.10), System Design and Scalability (#9.2, #9.3), Sorting and Searching
(#10.10), Hard Problems (#17.7, #17.12, #17.13, #17.14, #17.17, #17.20, #17.22, #17.25).
Hints start on page 653.

CrackingfheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

111

Bit Manipulation

it manipulation is used in a variety of problems. Sometimes, the question explicitly calls for bit manipulation. Other times, it’s simply a useful technique to optimize your code. You should be comfortable

doing bit manipulation by hand, as well as with code. Be careful; it’s easy to make little mistakes.

> Bit Manipulation By Hand
If you're rusty on bit manipulation, try the following exercises by hand. The items in the third column can be
solved manually or with “tricks” (described below). For simplicity, assume that these are four-bit numbers.
If you get confused, work them through as a base 10 number. You can then apply the same process to a
binary number. Remember that * indicates an XOR, and ~ is a NOT (negation).
0116 + 9010

9011 * 0101

9011

9011 *

+ 9010

0110 -

9011

1000 -

9110

1101

0110 + 9110

9011

>> 2

1101 * 0101

9100 * 0011

1101 *

(~1101)

1011 & (~@ <<

2)

Solutions: line 1 (1000, 1111, 1100); line
2 (0101, 1001, 1100); line3 (0011, 0011, 1111);
line
4
(0010, 1000, 1000).

The tricks in Column3 are as follows:

1. 6110 + 0110 is equivalent to 9110 *
2.
3.

2, which is equivalent to shifting 0110 left by 1.

9100 equals 4, and multiplying by 4 is just left shifting by 2. So we shift 6011 left by 2 to get 1100.
Think about this operation bit by bit. If you XOR a bit withits own negated value, you will always get 1.

Therefore, the solution to a*(~a) will be a sequence of 1s.
4. ~@ isa sequence of 1s,so~@

<<

2 is 1s followed by two Os. ANDing that with another value will clear

the last two bits of the value.
If you didn't see these tricks immediately, think about them logically.

> Bit Facts and Tricks
The following expressions are useful in bit manipulation. Don't just memorize them, though; think deeply
about why each of these is true. We use“1s” and “Os” to indicate a sequence of 1s or Os, respectively.

112

x

* @S = x

x

@S = @

x

x

“1s = ~x

x & 1s = x

x

x

*x =@

x &xX =x

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

&

|

|

@s = x

1s = 1s

x | x =x

Chapter 5 | Bit Manipulation
To understand these expressions, recall that these operations occur bit-by-bit, with what's happening on
one bit never impacting the other bits. This means that if one of the above statements is true for a single bit,
then it’s true for a sequence of bits.

> Two’s Complement and Negative Numbers
Computers typically store integers in two’s complement representation. A positive number is represented

as itself while a negative number is represented as the two’s complement of its absolute value (with a 1 in its
sign bit toindicatethat a negative value). The two's complement of an N-bit number (whereN

is the number

of bits used for the number, excluding the sign bit) is the complement of the number with respect to 2%.
Let's look at the 4-bit integer -3 as an example. If it’s a 4-bit number, we have one bit for the sign and three

bits for the value. We want the complement with respect to 23, which is 8. The complement of 3 (the absolute value of -3) with respect to 8 is 5.5 in binary is 101. Therefore, -3 in binary as a 4-bit number is 1101,
with the first bit being the sign bit.

in other words, the binary representation of -K (negative K) asa N-bit numberis

concat(1,

2"?

-

K).

Another way to look at this is that we invert the bits in the positive representation and then add 1. 3 is @11
in binary. Flip the bits to get 100, add 1 to get 101, then prepend the sign bit (1) to get 1101.
In a four-bit integer, this would look like the following.

Positive Values
7

@ 111

6

@ 110

-2

11 110

5

@ 101

-3

|1 101

4

@ 100

-4

|1 100

3

@ @11

-5

|1 011

2

@ e1e

-6

|1 @10

1

@ G01

-7

11 001

Q

@ eee

Observe that the absolute values of the integers on the left and right always sum to 22, and that the binary
values on the left and right sides are identical, other than the sign bit. Why is that?

> Arithmetic vs. Logical Right Shift
There are two types of right shift operators.
The arithmetic right shift essentially divides by two. The logical

right shift does what we would visually see as shifting the bits. This is best seen on a negative number.
Ina logical right shift, we shift the bits and put a @ in the most significant bit. It is indicated with a >>>

operator. On an 8-bit integer (where the sign bit is the most significant bit), this would look like the image
below. The sign bit is indicated with a gray background.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

113

Chapter
5 | Bit Manipulation
In an arithmetic right shift, we shift values to the right but fill in the new bits with the value of the sign bit.
This has the effect of (roughly) dividing by two. It is indicated by a >> operator.

What do you think these functions would do on parametersX =
1

int repeatedArithmeticShift(int x,

2

for

3

(int i = @;

X >>= 1;

A

i < count;

i++)

int count)

-93242 andcount = 4@?

{

{

// Arithmetic shift by 1

}

5

return x;

&

4}

7

8

int repeatedLogicalShift(int x,

9

for

18

X

int count) {

(int i = @3;

i < count;

>>>= 1;

Logical shift by 1

it

}

12

return x;

//

i+)

{

43}

With the logical shift, we would get @ because we are shifting a zero into the most significant bit repeatedly.

With the arithmetic shift, we would get -1 because we are shifting a one into the most significant bit
repeatedly. A sequence of all 1s in a (signed) integer represents - 1.

>» Common Bit Tasks: Getting and Setting
The following operations are very important to know, but do not simply memorize them. Memorizing leads

to mistakes that are impossible to recover from. Rather, understand how to implement these methods, so
that you can implement these, and other, bit problems.

Get Bit

This method shifts 1 over by i bits, creating a value that looks like 09010000. By performing an AND with
num, we clear all bits other than the bit at bit i. Finally, we compare that to @. If that new value is not zero,
then bit i must have a 1. Otherwise, bit i is a 0.
i

boolean getBit(int num,

2

return

int i)

((num & (1 << i))

{

!=@);

3
Set Bit

SetBit shifts 1 over by i bits, creating a value like 080010000. By performing an OR with num, only the

value at bit i will change. All other bits of the mask are zero and will not affect num.
i

int setBit(int num,

»

2

return num |

int i)

{

(1 << i);

3

114

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Chapter 5 | Bit Manipulation
Clear Bit

This method operates in almost the reverse of SetBit. First, we create

anumber like 11101111 by creating

the reverse of it (@60100@8) and negating it. Then, we perform an AND with num. This will clear the ith bit
and leave the remainder unchanged.
i

int

clearBit(int num,

int i)

2

int mask = ~(1 << i);

33

return num & mask;

{

a
To clear all bits from the most significant bit through i (inclusive), we create a mask with a 1 at the ith bit (1

<<

i). Then, we subtract 1 from it, giving us a sequence of @s followed by i 1s. We then AND our number

with this mask to leave just the last i bits.
4

int clearBitsMSBthroughI(int num,

ye

int mask = (1 << i)

3

return num & mask;

int i)

{

- 1;

oS
To clear all bits from i through @ (inclusive), we take a sequence of all 1s (which is -1) and shift it left by i
+ 1 bits. This gives us a sequence of 1s (in the most significant bits) followed by i @
1

int

clearBitsIthrough@(int

2

int mask =

3

return num & mask;

eee

(-1

<<

num,

int

i)

bits.

{

(i + 1));

di

Update Bit
To set the ith bit toa value v, we first clear the bit at position i by using a mask that looks like 11101111.

Then, we shift the intended value, v, left by i bits. This will create a number with bit i equal to v and all

other bits equal to @. Finally, we OR these two numbers, updating the ith bit if v is 1 and leaving it as @
otherwise.
21

int

updateBit(int num,

int

i,

? 1:

@;

2

int value = bitIs1

3

int mask = ~(1 << i);

4
Bs

return

(num & mask)

|

boolean

bitis1)

{

(value << i);

}

Interview Questions

5.1

Insertion: You

are given

two 32-bit

numbers, N

and

M, and two bit

j. Write a method to insert M into N such that M starts at bit
can assume that the bits j

through

i

have enough

positions,

i

and

j and ends at bit i. You

space to fit all of M. That is,

if

M = 10011, you can assume that there are at least 5 bits between j and i. You would not, for
example, havej = 3 and i = 2, because M could not fully At between bit 3 and bit 2.
EXAMPLE

Input;

N =

1e@@e@eeeee,

M = 10011,

i

=

2,

j

=

6

Output:N = 10001001100
Hints: #137,

#169, #215

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

115

Chapter 5 | Bit Manipulation
5.2

_ Binary to String: Given areal number between 0 and 1 (e.g., 0.72) that is passed in as a double, print

the binary representation. If the number cannot be represented accurately in binary with at most 32
characters, print “ERROR.”
Hints: #143, #167, #173, #269, #297

5.3

_ Flip Bit to Win: You have an integer and you can flip exactly one bit from a @ to a 1. Write code to

find the length of the longest sequence of 1s you could create.
EXAMPLE

Input:

1775

Output:

8

(or:

11011101111)

Hints: #159, #226, #314, #352

5.4

Next Number: Given a positive integer, print the next smallest and the next largest number that
have the same number of 1 bits in their binary representation.
Hints: #147, #175, #242, #312, #339, #358, #375, #390

5.5

Debugger: Explain what the following code does: ((n &

(n-1))

== @).

Hints: #151, #202, #261, #302, #346, #372, #383, #398

5.6

Conversion: Write a function to determine the number of bits you would need to flip to convert
integer A to integer B.
EXAMPLE

Input:

29 (or: 11101), 15 (or: @1111)

Output:

2

Hints: #336, #369

5.7.

Pairwise Swap: Write a program to swap odd and even bits in an integer with as few instructions as
possible (e.g., bit @ and bit 1 are swapped, bit 2 and bit 3 are swapped, and so on).
Hints:#145, #248, #328, #355

5.8

| DrawLine: A monochrome screen is stored as a single array of bytes, allowing eight consecutive
pixels to be stored in one byte. The screen has width w, where w is divisible by 8 (that is, no byte will

be split across rows). The height ofthe screen, of course, can be derived from the length of the array

and the width. Implement a function that draws a horizontal line from (x1, y) to (x2, y).
The method signature should look something like:
drawLine(byte[]

screen,

int width,

int x1,

int x2,

int y)

Hints: #366, #381, #384, #391

Additional Questions: Arrays and Strings (#1.1, #1.4, #1.8), Math and Logic Puzzles (#6.10), Recursion (#8.4,
#8.14), Sorting and Searching (#10.7, #10.8), C++ (#12.10), Moderate Problems (#16.1,#16.7), Hard Problems

(#17.1).
Hints start on page 662.

116

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Math and Logic Puzzles

o-called “puzzles” (or brain teasers) are some of the most hotly debated questions, and many companies
have policies banning them. Unfortunately, even when these questions are banned, you still may find
yourself being asked one of them. Why? Because no one can agree on a definition of what a brainteaseris.
The good news is that if you are asked a puzzle or brainteaser, it’s likely to be a reasonably fair one. It probably won't rely on a trick of wording, and it can almost always be logically deduced. Many have their foundations in mathematics or computer science, and almost all have solutions that can be logically deduced.

We'll go through some common approaches for tackling these questions, as well as some of the essential
knowledge.

> Prime Numbers
As you probably know, every positive integer can be decomposed into a product of primes. For example:

Beat 8) SO?

ee

tis” * ATL

ow

Note that many of these primes have an exponent of zero.

Divisibility

The prime number law stated above means that, in order for a number x to divide a number y (written

x\y, ormod(y,

xX) = 8),all primes in x’s prime factorization must be in y’s prime factorization. Or, more

specifically:

etx =) 21)

isi

G12

7)

es,

let y= 2008 Beer 7A

ro

lf x\y, then for alli, ji <= ki.
In fact, the greatest common divisor of x and y will be:
gcd(x,

y)

=

Dmin(ja,

ke)

*

Qmin(j1, k1)

*

Gmin(j2, k2)

*

x

Gmax(j2, k2)

*

The least common multiple of x and y will be:
lcem(x,

y)

=

Dmax( jes ke)

x

gmax(j1, k1)

As a fun exercise, stop foramoment and think what would happen if you did gcd * 1cm:
gcd

*

Icm

=

2min( je,

=

Dmin( ja, k@) + max(j@,

=

2J0+k®

2j@

*

k@)

*

pke

*

Dmax( je,

Zj1+kl

*

3j1

k@)

k@)

x

*

Qmin(j1, k1)

Qmin(j1,

k1)

*

Qmax(j1,

+ max(j1, ki)

k1)

x

*

*

*

3kI

*

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition | 17

Chapter 6 | Math and Logic Puzzles
=

xy

Checking for Primality
This question is so common that we feel the need to specifically cover it. The naive way is to simply iterate
from 2 through n-1, checking for divisibility on each iteration.
i

boolean primeNaive(int n)

4

if

3

(n < 2)

{

{

return false;

4

}

5

for

(int i = 2;

i <

6

if (n% i == 6)

7

return false;

8
3

}

10

return true;

nj;

i++)

{

{

}

11
}

A small but important improvement is to iterate only up through the square root of n.
1

boolean primeSlightlyBetter(int n)

2

if (n < 2)

3

{

{

return false;

a

}

5

int sqrt = (int) Math.sqrt(n);

6

for

i

(int i = 2;

i <= sqrt;

if (n % i == @)

8

t

9

return true;

i++)

{

return false;

10
}

The Jn is sufficient because, for every number a which divides n evenly, there isa complement b, where
a * b = n.lifa >
n,thenb < Jn (since (/n) = NN). We therefore don’t need a to check n’s
primality, since we would have aiready checked with b.
Of course, in reality, all we really need to do is to check if n is divisible by a prime number. This is where the
Sieve of Eratosthenes comes in.

Generating a List of Primes: The Sieve of Eratosthenes
The Sieve of Eratosthenes is a highly efficient way to generate a list of primes. It works by recognizing that
all non-prime numbers are divisible by a prime number.
We start witha list of all the numbers up through some value max. First, we cross off all numbers divisible by

2. Then, we look for the next prime (the next non-crossed off number) and cross off allnumbers divisible by
it. By crossing off all numbers divisible by 2, 3, 5, 7,

11, and so on, we wind up with a list of prime numbers

from 2 throughmax.

The code below implements the Sieve of Eratosthenes.
1

boolean[]

sieveOfEratosthenes(int max)

{

2

boolean[]

flags = new boolean[max + 1];

3

int

= 0;

count

4

5

init(flags);

6

int prime = 2;

// Set all flags to true other than @ and 1

7

8

while (prime <= Math.sqrt(max))

118

{

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Chapter 6 | Math and Logic Puzzles
e

/* Cross off remaining multiples of prime

1e

crossOff(flags,

*/

prime)
;

11

119)

/* Find next value which is true */

13

prime = getNextPrime(flags,

14

prime);

}

15

16

17

return flags;

}

18

19

void crossOff(boolean[]

28

flags,

int prime) {

/* Cross off remaining multiples of prime.

26

We can start with

(prime*prime),

* because if we have a k * prime, where k < prime, this value would have

a2.

* already been crossed off in a prior iteration.

23

for

24

(int i = prime * prime;

flags[i]

25

i < flags.length;

*/

i += prime)

{

= false;

}

209,
27

28

int getNextPrime(boolean[]

28

int

30

while

int prime)

{

(next < flags.length && !flags[next])

{

next++;

31

}

32
33

34

flags,

next = prime + 1;

return

next;

}

Of course, there are a number of optimizations that can be made to this. One simple one is to only use odd
numbers in the array, which would allow us to reduce our space usage by half.

> Probability
Probability can be a complex topic, but it’s based in a few basic laws that can be logically derived.

Let’s look at a Venn diagram to visualize two events
A and B. The areas of the two circles represent their rela-

tive probability, and the overlapping area is the event {A and B}.

Probability of A and B

imagine you were throwing a dart at this Venn diagram. What is the probability that you would land in the

intersection between A and B? If you knew the odds of landing in A, and you also knew the percent of A
that’s also in 8 (that is, the odds of being in B given that you were in A), then you could express the probability as:

P(A and B) = P(B given A) P(A)
For example, imagine we were picking a number between 1 and 10 (inclusive). What's the probability of

picking an even number anda number between 1 and 5?The odds of picking
50%, and the odds of

anumber between 1 and 5 is

anumber between 1 and 5 being even is 40%. So, the odds of doing both are:

P(x is even and x <= 5)

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

119

Chapter 6 | Math and Logic Puzzles

tl

P(x is even given x <= 5) P(x <= 5)

(2/5) * (1/2)

= 1/5

Observe
that
sinceP(A and B) = P(B given A) P(A) = P(A given B)
P(B),
you
can express
the probability of A given B in terms of the reverse:

P(A given B) = P(B given A) P(A) / P(B)
The above equation is called Bayes’ Theorem.

Probability of
A or B
Now, imagine you wanted to know what the probability of landing in A or B is. If you knew the odds of
landing in each individually, and you also knew the odds of landing in their intersection, then you could
express the probability as:

P(A or B) = P(A) + P(B)

- P(A and B)

Logically, this makes sense. If we simply added their sizes, we would have double-counted their intersection. We need to subtract this out. We can again visualize this through a Venn diagram:

For example, imagine we were picking a number between 1 and 10 (inclusive). What's the probability of

picking an even number or a number between 1 and 5? We have a 50% probability of picking an even
number and a 50% probability of picking a number between 1 and 5. The odds of doing both are 20%. So
the odds are:

P(x is even or x <=5)
= P(x is even) + P(x <= 5)

- P(x is even and x <= 5)

Yr+Y%,-Vs
= %
From here, getting the special case rules for independent events and for mutually exclusive events is easy.

Independence

IfA and B are independent (that is, one happening tells you nothing about the other happening), then P(A
and B) = P(A)

P(B).This rule simply comes from recognizing thatP(B given A) = P(B),sinceA

indicates nothing about B.

Mutual Exctusivity

IfA and B are mutually exclusive (that is, if one happens, then the other cannot happen), thenP(A or B)
=

P(A)

+ P(B).This is because P(A and

B)

= @,s0 this term is removed from the earlier P(A or

B) equation.
Many people, strangely, mix up the concepts of independence and mutual exclusivity. They are entirely

different. In fact, two events cannot be both independent and mutually exclusive (provided both have
probabilities greater than 0). Why? Because mutual exclusivity means that if one happens then the other
cannot. Independence, however, says that one event happening means absolutely nothing about the other
event. Thus, as long as two events have non-zero probabilities, they will never be both mutually exclusive
and independent.

120

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

Chapter 6 | Math and Logic Puzzles
If one or both events have a probability of zero (that is, it is impossible), then the events are both independent and mutually exclusive. This is provable through a simple application of the definitions (that is, the

formulas) of independence and mutual exclusivity.

> Start Talking
Don't panic when you get a brainteaser. Like algorithm questions, interviewers want to see how you tackle
a problem; they don’t expect you to immediately know the answer. Start talking, and show the interviewer
how you approach a problem.

> Develop Rules and Patterns
In many cases, you will find it useful to write down “rules” or patterns that you discover while solving the
problem. And yes, you really should write these down—it will help you remember them as you solve the
problem. Let's demonstrate this approach with an example.

You have two ropes, and each takes exactly one hour to burn. How would you use them to time exactly 15
minutes? Note that the ropes are of uneven densities, so half the rope length-wise does not necessarily take
half an hour to burn.

Tip:

Stop here and spend some time trying to solve this problem on your own. !fyou absolutely must,

read through this section for hints—but do so slowly. Every paragraph will get you a bit closer to the
solution.

From the statement of the problem, we immediately know that we can time one hour. We can also time
two hours, by lighting one rope, waiting until it is burnt, and then lighting the second. We can generalize
this into a rule.

Rule 1: Given a rope that takes x minutes to burn and another that takes y minutes, we can time x+y
minutes.

What else can we do with the rope? We can probably assume that lighting a rope in the middle (or anywhere
other than the ends) won't do us much good. The flames would expand in both directions, and we have no

idea how long it would take to burn.
However, we can light a rope at both ends. The two flames would meet after 30 minutes.

Rule 2: Given a rope that takes x minutes to burn, we can time or minutes.
We now know that we can time 30 minutes using a single rope. This also means that we can remove 30
minutes of burning time from the second rope, by lighting rope 1 on both ends and rope 2 onjust one end.

Rule 3:|f rope 1 takes x minutes to burn and rope 2 takes y minutes, we can turn rope 2 into arope that takes

(y-x) minutes or (y- ie ) minutes.

Now, let's piece all of these together. We can turn rope 2 into a rope with 30 minutes of burn time. If we then
light rope 2 on the other end (see rule 2), rope 2 will be done after 15 minutes.

From start to end, our approach is as follows:
1.

Light rope 1 at both ends and rope 2 at one end.

2. When the two flames on Rope 1 meet, 30 minutes will have passed. Rope 2 has 30 minutes left of burntime.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

121

Chapter 6 | Math and Logic Puzzles
3. At that point, light Rope 2 at the other end.

4. In exactly fifteen minutes, Rope 2 will be completely burnt.
Note how solving this problem is made easier by listing out what you've learned and what “rules” you've
discovered.

> Worst Case Shifting
Many brainteasers are worst-case minimization problems, worded either in terms of minimizing an action
orin doing something at most a specific number of times. A useful technique is to try to “balance”
the worst

case. That is, if an early decision results in a skewing of the worst case, we can sometimes change the decision to balance out the worst case. This will be clearest when explained with an example.
The “nine balls” question is a classic interview question. You have nine balls. Eight are of the same weight,

and one is heavier. You are given a balance which tells you only whether the left side or the right side is
heavier. Find the heavy ball in just two uses of the scale.
A first approach is to divide the balls in sets of four, with the ninth ball sitting off
to the side. The heavy ball
is in the heavier set. If they are the same weight, then we know that the ninth ball is the heavy one. Replicating this approach for the remaining sets would result in a worst case of three weighings—one too many!
This is an imbalance in the worst case: the ninth ball takes just one weighing to discover if it’s heavy, whereas

others take three. If we penalize the ninth ball by putting more balls off to the side, we can lighten the load
on the others. This is an example of "worst case balancing.”
If we divide the balls into sets of three items each, we will know after just one weighing which set has the
heavy one. We can even formalize this into a ru/e: given N balls, where N is divisible by 3, one use of the scale

will point us to a set of hy balls with the heavy ball.

For the final set of three balls, we simply repeat this: put one ball off to the side and weigh two. Pick the
heavier of the two. Or, if the balls are the same weight, pick the third one.

> Algorithm Approaches
If you're stuck, consider applying one of the approaches fOr solving algorithm questions (starting on page

67). Brainteasers are often nothing more than algorithm questions with the technical aspects removed.
Base Case and Build and Do It Yourself (DIY) can be especially useful.
Additional Reading: Useful Math (pg 629).

Interview Questions

6.1

The Heavy Pill: You have 20 bottles of pills.

19 bottles have 1.0 gram pills, but one has pills of weight

1.1 grams. Given a scale that provides an exact measurement, how would you find the heavy bottle?
You can only use the scale once.
Hints: #1686, #252, #319, #387

122

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Chapter 6 | Math and Logic Puzzles
6.2

Basketball: You have a basketball hoop and someone says that you can play one of two games.

Game 1: You get one shot to make the hoop.
Game 2: You get three shots and you have to make two of three shots.

If p is the probability of making a particular shot, for which values of p should you pick one game
or the other?

Hints: #181, #239, #284, #323

Dominos: There is an 8x8 chessboard in which two diagonally opposite corners have been cut off.
You are given 31 dominos, and a single domino can cover exactly two squares. Can you use the 31

dominos to cover the entire board? Prove your answer (by providing an example or showing why
it’s impossible).
Hints: #367, #397

6.4

Ants on aTriangle: There are three ants on different vertices of a triangle. What is the probability of
collision (between any two or all of them) if they start walking on the sides of the triangle? Assume
that each ant randomly picks a direction, with either direction being equally likely to be chosen, and
that they walk at the same speed.
Similarly, find the probability of collision with n ants on an n-vertex polygon.
Hints: #157, #195, #296

6.5

Jugs of Water: You have a five-quart jug, a three-quart jug, and an unlimited supply of water (but
no measuring cups). How would you come up with exactly four quarts of water? Note that the jugs
are oddly shaped, such that filling up exactly “half” of the jug would be impossible.
Hints: #149, #379, #400

6.6

Blue-Eyed Island: A bunch of people are living on an island, whena visitor comes with a strange
order: all blue-eyed people must leave the island as soon as possible. There will be a flight out at
8:00 pm every evening. Each person can see everyone else's eye color, but they do not know their
own (nor is anyone allowed to tell them). Additionally, they do not know how many people have
blue eyes, although they do know that at least one person does. How many days will it take the
blue-eyed people to leave?
Hints: #218, #282, #341, #370

6.7

The Apocalypse: In the new post-apocalyptic world, the world queen is desperately concerned

about the birth rate. Therefore, she decrees that all families should ensure that they have one girl or
else they face massive fines. If all families abide by this policy—that is, they have continue to have
children until they have one girl, at which point they immediately stop—what will the gender ratio
of the new generation be? (Assume that the odds of someone having a boy or a girl on any given
pregnancy is equal.) Solve this out logically and then write a computer simulation of it.
Hints: #154, #160, #171, #188, #201

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

123

Chapter 6 | Math and Logic Puzzles
6.8

The Egg Drop Problem: There is a building of 100 floors. If an egg drops from the Nth floor or
above, it will break. If it’s dropped from any floor below, it will not break. You're given two eggs. Find
N, while minimizing the number of drops for the worst case.
Hints: #156, #233, #294, #333, #357, #374, #395

6.9

100 Lockers: There are 100 closed lockers in a hallway. A man begins by opening all 100 lockers.
Next, he closes every second locker. Then, on his third pass, he toggles every third locker (closes it if

it is open or opens it if it is closed). This process continues for 100 passes, such that on each pass i,
the man toggles every ith locker. After his 100th pass in the hallway, in which he toggles only locker
#100, how many lockers are open?
Hints: #139, #172, #264, #306

6.10

Poison: You have 1000 bottles of soda, and exactly one is poisoned. You have 10 test strips which
can be used to detect poison. A single drop of poison will turn the test strip positive permanently.
You can put any number of drops on a test strip at once and you can reuse a test strip as many times

as you'd like (as long as the results are negative). However, you can only run tests once per day and

it takes seven days to return a result. How would you figure out the poisoned bottle in as few days
as possible?
FOLLOW UP
Write code to simulate your approach.
Hints: #146, #163, #183, #191, #205, #221, #230, #241, #249

Additional Problems: Moderate Problems (#16.5), Hard Problems (#17.19)
Hints start on page 662.

124

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Object-Oriented Design

bject-oriented design questions require a candidate to sketch out the classes and methods to implement technical problems or real-life objects. These problems give—or at least are believed to give—
an interviewer insight into your coding style.
These questions are not so much about regurgitating design patterns as they are about demonstrating that

you understand how to create elegant, maintainable object-oriented code. Poor performance on this type
of question may raise serious red flags.

> How to Approach
Regardless of whether the object is a physical item or a technical task, object-oriented design questions can
be tackled in similar ways. The following approach will work well for many problems.

Step 1: Handle Ambiguity
Object-oriented design (OOD) questions are often intentionally vague in order to test whether you'll make

assumptions or if you'll ask clarifying questions. After all, a developer who just codes something without
understanding what she is expected to create wastes the company’s time and money, and may create much
more serious issues.

When being asked an object-oriented design question, you should inquire who is going to use it and how
they are going to use it. Depending on the question, you may even want to go through the “six Ws”: who,
what, where, when, how, why.
For example, suppose you were asked to describe the object-oriented design for a coffee maker. This seems

straightforward enough, right? Not quite.
Your coffee maker might be an industrial machine designed to be used in a massive restaurant servicing
hundreds of customers per hour and making ten different kinds of coffee products. Or it might be a very
simple machine, designed to be used by the elderly for just simple black coffee. These use cases will significantly impact your design.

Step 2: Define the Core Objects
Now that we understand what we're designing, we should consider what the “core objects” in a system

are. For example, suppose we are asked to do the object-oriented design for a restaurant. Our core objects
might be things like Table, Guest, Party, Order, Meal, Employee, Server, and Host.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

125

Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
Step 3: Analyze Relationships
Having more or less decided on our core objects, we now want to analyze the relationships between the

objects. Which objects are members of which other objects? Do any objects inherit from any others? Are
relationships many-to-many or one-to-many?

For example, in the restaurant question, we may come up with the following design:
«

Party should have an array of Guests.

«

Server andhost inherit from Employee.

-

Each Table has one Party, but each Party may have multiple Tables.

-

There is one Host for the Restaurant.

Be very careful here—you can often make incorrect assumptions. For example, a single Table may have
multiple Parties (as is common in the trendy “communal tables”
at some restaurants). You should talk to
your interviewer about how general purpose your design should be.

Step 4: Investigate Actions

At this point, you should have the basic outline of your object-oriented design. What remains is to consider
the key actions that the objects will take and how they relate to each other. You may find that you have
forgotten some objects, and you will need to update your design.

For example, a Party walks into the Restaurant, and a Guest requests a Table from the Host. The
Host looks up the Reservation and, if it exists, assigns the Party toa Table. Otherwise, the Party
is added to the end of the list. When a Party leaves, the Table is freed and assigned to a new Party in
the list.

> Design Patterns
Because interviewers are trying to test your capabilities and not your knowledge, design patterns are

mostly beyond the scope of an interview. However, the Singleton and Factory Method design patterns are
widely used in interviews, so we will cover them here.

There are far more design patterns than this book could possibly discuss. A great way to improve your software engineering skills is to pick up a book that focuses on this area specifically.
Be careful you don't fall into a trap of constantly trying to find the “right” design pattern for a particular
problem. You should create the design that works for that problem. In some cases it might be an established pattern, but in many other cases it is not.

Singleton Class

The Singleton pattern ensures that a class has only one instance and ensures access to the instance through

the application. It can be useful in cases where you have a “global” object with exactly one instance. For
Restaurant {

Uv BO

public class

private static Restaurant (instance = null;

sd CN UT De

bd

example, we may want to implement Restaurant such that it has exactly one instance of Restaurant.

public static Restaurant getInstance() {

protected Restaurant() {

...

}

if (_instance == null) {
_instance = new Restaurant();

}

126

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

Chapter
7 | Object-Oriented Design
8

3

18

return _instance;
}

t

It should be noted that many people dislike the Singleton design pattern, even calling it an “anti-pattern.’

One reason for this is that it can interfere with unit testing.

Factory Method

The Factory Method offers an interface for creating an instance of a class, with its subclasses deciding
which class to instantiate. You might want to implement this with the creator class being abstract and not

providing an implementation for the Factory method. Or, you could have the Creator class be a concrete
class that provides an implementation for the Factory method. In this case, the Factory method would take
a parameter representing which class to instantiate.
i

public

2

class

B

if

4.

(type == GameType.Poker)

5

} else

if

(type == GameType.BlackJack)

{

return new BlackJackGame()
;

7

}

8

return

10
}

{

return new PokerGame();

6

&

CardGame {

public static CardGame createCardGame(GameType type) {

null;

5

Interview Questions
7.1

Deck of Cards: Design the data structures for a generic deck of cards. Explain how you would
subclass the data structures to implement blackjack.
Hints: #153, #275

7.2

Call Center: Imagine you have a call center with three levels of employees: respondent, manager,

and director. An incoming telephone call must be first allocated to a respondent who is free. If the
respondent can't handle the call, he or she must escalate the call to a manager. If the manager is not
free or not able to handle it, then the call should be escalated to a director. Design the classes and

data structures for this problem. Implement a method dispatchCal1() which assigns a call to
the first available employee.
Hints: #363

7.3.

Jukebox: Design a musical jukebox using object-oriented principles.
Hints: #198

7.4

Parking Lot: Design a parking lot using object-oriented principles.
Hints: #258

7.5

Online Book Reader: Design the data structures for an online book reader system.
Hints: #344

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

127

Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
7.6

Jigsaw: Implement an NXxN jigsaw puzzle. Design the data structures and explain an algorithm to
solve the puzzle. You can assume that you have a fitsWith method which, when passed two
puzzle edges, returns true if the two edges belong together.
Hints: #192, #238, #283

Chat Server: Explain how you would design a chat server. In particular, provide details about the

various backend components, classes, and methods. What would be the hardest problems to solve?
Hints: #213, #245, #271

Othello: Othello is played as follows: Each Othello piece is white on one side and black on the other.
When a piece is surrounded by its opponents on both the left and right sides, or both the top and

bottom, it is said to be captured and its color is flipped. On your turn, you must capture at least one
of your opponent's pieces. The game ends when either user has no more valid moves. The win is
assigned to the person with the most pieces. Implement the object-oriented design for Othello.
Hints: #179, #228

7.9

Circular Array: !mplement a CircularArray classthat supports an array-like data structure which
can be efficiently rotated. If possible, the class should use a generic type (also called a template), and

should support iteration viathe standard for
Hints: #389

128

Cracking the Cading Interview, 6th Edition

(Obj

o

:

circularArray) notation.

Chapter
7 | Object-Oriented Design
7.10

Minesweeper: Design and implement a text-based Minesweeper game. Minesweeper is the classic
single-player computer game where an NXN grid has B mines (or bombs) hidden across the grid. The

remaining cells are either blank or have a number behind them. The numbers reflect the number of
bombs in the surrounding eight cells. The user then uncovers a cell, If it is a bomb, the player loses.
If it is a number, the number is exposed. If it is a blank cell, this cell and all adjacent blank cells (up to
and including the surrounding numeric cells) are exposed.
The player wins when all non-bomb cells
are exposed.
The player can also flag certain places as potential bombs. This doesn't affect game

play, other than to block the user from accidentally clicking a cell that is thought to have a bomb.
(Tip for the reader: if you're not familiar with this game, please play a few rounds online first.)

This is a fully exposed board with 3

| The player initially sees a board with

bombs. This is not shown to the user.

nothing exposed.

1]

1]

shal

| chal |

1

2|2

42

1

1

1}1]1
1/141

1

| ae

fe

Clicking on cell (row = 1, col = 0)

The user wins when everything other

would expose this:

than bombs has been exposed.

Hints: #351, #361, #377, #386, #399

7.11

File System: Explain the data structures and algorithms that you would use to design an in-memory

file system. illustrate with an example in code where possible.
Hints: #141, #216

7.12.

Hash Table: Design and implement a hash table which uses chaining (linked lists) to handle collisions.
Hints: #287, #307

Additional Questions: Threads and Locks (#16.3)

Hints start on page 662.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

129

Recursion and Dynamic Programming

hile there are a large number of recursive problems, many follow similar patterns. A good hint that a
problem is recursive is that it can be built off of subproblems.
When you hear a problem beginning with the following statements, it’s often (though not always) a good
candidate for recursion: “Design an algorithm to compute the nth... “Write code to list the first n..”) “Implement a method to compute all... and so on.

Tip: In my experience coaching candidates, people typically have about 50% accuracy in their

“this sounds like a recursive problem” instinct. Use that instinct, since that 50% is valuable. But
don't be afraid to look at the problem in a different way, even if you initially thought it seemed
recursive. There's also a 50% chance that you were wrong.

Practice makes perfect! The more problems you do, the easier it will be to recognize recursive problems.

>» How to Approach
Recursive solutions, by definition, are built off of solutions to subproblems. Many times, this will mean

simply to compute F(n) by adding something, removing something, or otherwise changing the solution
for F(n-1). In other cases, you might solve the problem for the first half of the data set, then the second
half, and then merge those results.
There are many ways you might divide a problem into subproblems.
Three of the most common approaches
to develop an algorithm are bottom-up, top-down, and half-and-half.

Bottom-Up Approach

The bottom-up approach is often the most intuitive. We start with knowing how to solve the problem

for a simple case, like a list with only one element. Then we figure out how to solve the problem for two
elements, then for three elements, and so on. The key here is to think about how you can build the solution
for one case off of the previous case (or multiple previous cases).

Top-Down Approach

The top-down approach can be more complex since it’s less concrete. But sometimes, it’s the best way to

think about the problem.
in these problems, we think about how we can divide the problem for case N into subproblems.

Be careful of overlap between the cases.

130

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
Half-and-Half Approach
In addition to top-down and bottom-up approaches, it’s often effective to divide the data set in half.

For example, binary search works with a “half-and-half” approach. When we look for an element in a sorted

array, we first figure out which half of the array contains the value. Then we recurse and search for it in that
haif.

Merge sort is also a “half-and-half” approach. We sort each half of the array and then merge together the
sorted halves.

> Recursive vs. Iterative Solutions
Recursive algorithms can be very space inefficient. Each recursive call adds a new layer to the stack, which

means that if your algorithm recurses to a depth of n, it uses at least O(n) memory.
For this reason, it’s often better to implement a recursive algorithm iteratively. Ai! recursive algorithms can

be implemented iteratively, although sometimes the code to do so is much more complex. Before diving
into recursive code, ask yourself how hard it would be to implement it iteratively, and discuss the tradeoffs

with your interviewer.

> Dynamic Programming & Memoization
Although people make a big deal about how scary dynamic programming problems are, there's really no
need to be afraid of them. In fact, once you get the hang of them, these can actually be very easy problems.
Dynamic programming is mostly just a matter of taking a recursive algorithm and finding the overlapping

subproblems (that is, the repeated calls). You then cache those results for future recursive calls.
Alternatively, you can study the pattern of the recursive calls and implement something iterative. You still

“cache” previous work.

A note on terminology: Some people call top-down dynamic programming “memoization” and
only use “dynamic programming’
to refer to bottom-up work. We do not make such a distinction
here. We call both dynamic programming.

One of the simplest examples of dynamic programming is computing the nth Fibonacci number. A good

way to approach such a problem is often to implement it as a normal recursive solution, and then add the
caching part.

Fibonacci Numbers

Let's walk through an approach to compute the nth Fibonacci number.
Recursive

We will start with a recursive implementation. Sounds simple, right?
int fibonacci(int i) {
if (i == 0)

return 0;

if

return 1;

(i == 1)

return fibonacci(i -

1) + fibonacci(i

- 2);

t

CrackingTheCodingtnterview.com | 6th Edition

131

Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
What is the runtime of this function? Think for a second before you answer.
if you said O(n) or O(n?) (as many people do), think again. Study the code path that the code takes.
Drawing the code paths as a tree (that is, the recursion tree) is useful on this and many recursive problems.
fib(5)

fib(4

eae oafib(2)
fib(3)
‘\

FO
fib(1)

fib(1)

LN

fib(1)

fib(@)

y
fib(2)

SN

fib(1)

fib(3)

eresfib(1)

fib(@)

fib(@)

Observe that the leaves on the tree are all fib(1) and Fib(@). Those

signify the base cases.

The total number of nodes in the tree will represent the runtime, since each call only does O(1) work
outside of its recursive calls. Therefore, the number of calls is the runtime.

Tip: Remember this for future problems. Drawing the recursive calls as a tree is a great way to
figure out the runtime of a recursive algorithm.

How many nodes are in the tree? Until we get down to the base cases (leaves), each node has two children.
Each node branches out twice.
The root node has two children. Each of those children has two children (so four children total in the "grandchildren” level). Each of those grandchildren has two children, and so on. If we do this n times, we'll have

roughly 0( 2") nodes. This gives us a runtime of roughly 0( 2").

Actually, it’s slightly better than 0( 2"). If you look at the subtree, you might notice that (excluding
the leaf nodes and those immediately above it) the right subtree of any node is always smaller

than the left subtree. If they were the same size, we'd have an O( 2") runtime. But since the right

and left subtrees are not the same size, the true runtime is closer toO0( 1.6"). Saying O( 2") is still
technically correct though as it describes an upper bound on the runtime (see “Big O, Big Theta,
and Big Omega”
on page 39). Either way, we still have an exponential runtime.

Indeed, if we implemented this on a computer, we'd see the number of seconds increase exponentially.
80
50

40 +

|

0

10
20
30
40
Seconds to Generate Nth Fibonacci

We should look fOr a way to optimize this.

132

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
Top-Down Dynamic Programming (or Memoization)

Study the recursion tree. Where do you see identical nodes?

There are lots of identical nodes. For example, fib (3) appears twice and fib(2) appears three times. Why
should we recompute these from scratch each time?

In fact, when we call fib(n), we shouldn't have to do much more than O(n) calls, since there’s only O(n)

possible values we can throw at fib. Each time we compute fib (i), we should just cache this result and
use it later.
This is exactly what memoization is.

With just a small modification, we can tweak this function to run in O(n ) time. We simply cache the results
of fibonacci(i)
L
2

3

between calls.

int fibonacci(int

n)

{

return fibonacci(n,

new int[n + 1]);

}

4

S

int fibonacci(int

6

deh (ae == (8,1)

i,

int[]

memo)

{

Pay == As) peering?

7

8

if (memo[i] == @)

9

memo[i]

18

1,

memo)

+ fibonacci(i

-

2,

memo);

}

Li
12

{

= fibonacci(i -

return

memo[i];

}

While the first recursive function may take over a minute to generate the 50th Fibonacci number on a
typical computer, the dynamic programming method can generate the 10,000th Fibonacci number in just

fractions ofa millisecond. (Of course, with this exact code, the int would have overflowed very early on.)
Now, if we draw the recursion tree, it looks something like this (the black boxes represent cached calls that
returned immediately):

fib(4

_—

fib(3

a ——
fib(2) |
fib

WwW

fib(3)

DS
fib(1)

fib(2)
fib(1)

fib(5)

N

fib(@)

How many nodes are in this tree now? We might notice that the tree now just shoots straight down, to a
depth of roughly n. Each node of those nodes has one other child, resulting in roughly 2n children in the

tree. This gives us a runtime of O(n).
Often it can be useful to picture the recursion tree as something like this:
ee

fib(S)
A

Pe

fib(4
fib(3

fib(3)
fib(2)
fib(1)

fib(2

fib(1)

fib(@)

This is not actually howthe recursion occurred. However, by expanding the further up nodes rather than the

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

133

Chapter
8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
lower nodes, you have a tree that grows wide before it grows deep. (It's like doing this breadth-first rather
than depth-first.) Sometimes this makes it easier to compute the number of nodes in the tree. All you're

really doing is changing which nodes you expand and which ones return cached values. Try this if you're
stuck on computing the runtime ofa dynamic programming problem.
Bottom-Up Dynamic Programming

We can also take this approach and implement it with bottom-up dynamic programming. Think about
doing the same things as the recursive memoized approach, but in reverse.

First, we compute fib(1) and fib(@), which are already known from the base cases. Then we use those

to compute fib(2). Then we use the prior answers to compute fib( 3), then fib(4), and so on.
1

int fibonacci(int n)

2

if (n == @)

3

else if

{

return Q;

(n == 1)

return 1;

4

5

int[]

6

memo[@]

= @;

?

memo[1]

= 1;

8

for

=

memo = new int[n];

(int i = 2;

memo[i]

1e

i++)
1]

{

+ memo[i

-

2];

}

ii

12

i <n;

= memo[i -

return memo[n

-

1]

+ memo[n

-

2];

}

If you really think about how this works, you only use memo[i] formemo[i+1] andmemo[ i+2]. You dont
need it after that. Therefore, we can get rid of the memo table and just store a few variables.
1

int fibonacci(int n)

2

if

(n == 6)

3

int a = @;

4

int b = 1;

5

for

(int i = 2;

S

int

?

a=);

8

c

{

return Q;

i <n;

i++)

{

=a+b;

b= C¢;

9

}

18

return

a+

b;

41}

This is basically storing the results from the last two Fibonacci values into a and b. At each iteration, we

compute the next value (c = a + b) andthenmove(b,

c = a + b)into(a,

b).

This explanation might seem like overkill for such a simple problem, but truly understanding this process
will make more difficult problems much easier. Going through the problems in this chapter, many of which

use dynamic programming, will help solidify your understanding.
Additional Reading: Proof by Induction (pg 631).

Interview Questions
8.1

Triple Step: A child is running up a staircase with n steps and can hop either 1 step, 2 steps, or 3

steps at a time. Implement a method to count how many possible ways the child can run up the
stairs.
Hints: #152, #178, #217, #237, #262, #359

134

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
Robot in a Grid: Imagine a robot sitting on the upper left corner of grid with r rows and c columns.
The robot can only move in two directions, right and down, but certain cells are “off limits” such that
the robot cannot step on them. Design an algorithm to find a path for the robot from the top left to

the bottom right.
Hints: #331, #360, #388

Magic Index: A magic index in an array A[@. . .n-1] is defined to be an index such that A[i]

=

i. Given a sorted array of distinct integers, write a method to find a magic index, if one exists, in
array A.

FOLLOW UP
What if the values are not distinct?
Hints: #170, #204, #240, #286, #340

8.4

Power Set: Write a method to return all subsets of a set.
Hints: #273, #290, #338, #354, #373

8.5

Recursive Multiply: Write a recursive function to multiply two positive integers without using the

* operator. You can use addition, subtraction, and bit shifting, but you should minimize the number
of those operations.
Hints: #166, #203, #227, #234, #246, #280
weet

8.6

Towers of Hanoi: In the classic problem of the Towers of Hanoi, you have 3 towers and N disks of
different sizes which can slide onto any tower. The puzzle starts with disks sorted in ascending order
of size from top to bottom (i.e., each disk sits on top of an even larger one). You have the following
constraints:

(1) Only one disk can be moved at a time.

(2) A disk is slid off the top of one tower onto another tower.
(3) A disk cannot be placed on top of a smaller disk.
Write a program to move the disks from the first tower to the last using stacks.
Hints: #144, #224, #250, #272, #318

8.7

Permutations without Dups: Write a method to compute all permutations of a string of unique
characters,
Hints: #150, #185, #200, #267, #278, #309, #335, #356

8.8

Permutations with Dups: Write a method to compute all permutations of a string whose charac-

ters are not necessarily unique. The list of permutations should not have duplicates.
Hints: #161, #190, #222, #255

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

135

Chapter & | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
8.9

Parens: Implement an algorithm to print all valid (e.g., properly opened and closed) combinations

of n pairs of parentheses.
EXAMPLE
Input:
3

Output: ((())), COO), CO, OCO), OOO
Hints: #138, #174, #187, #209, #243, #265, #295

Paint Fill: Implement the “paint fill’ function that one might see on many image editing programs.
That is, given a screen (represented by a two-dimensional array of colors), a point, and a new color,
fill in the surrounding area until the color changes from the original color.
Hints: #364, #382

Coins: Given an infinite number of quarters (25 cents), dimes (10 cents), nickels (5 cents), and
pennies (1 cent), write code to calculate the number of ways of representing n cents.
Hints: #300, #324, #343, #380, #394

Eight Queens: Write an algorithm to print all ways of arranging eight queens on an 8x8 chess board
so that none of them share the same row, column, or diagonal. In this case, “diagonal” means all
diagonals, not just the two that bisect the board.
Hints: #308, #350, #371

Stack of Boxes: You have a stack of n boxes, with widths W., heights h,, and depths d,. The boxes
cannot be rotated and can only be stacked on top of one another if each box in the stack is strictly
larger than the box above it in width, height, and depth. Implement a method to compute the
height of the tallest possible stack. The height of a stack is the sum of the heights of each box.
Hints: #155, #194, #214, #260, #322, #368, #378

Boolean Evaluation: Given a boolean expression consisting of the symbols @ (false), 1 (true), &

(AND), | (OR), and * (XOR), and a desired boolean result value result, implement a function to
count the number of ways of parenthesizing the expression such that it evaluates to result.
EXAMPLE

countEval("1*@|0|1", false)

-> 2

countEval ("0808&0&1"1|0", true)

-> 10

Hints: #148, #168, #197, #305, #327

Additional Questions: Linked Lists (#2.2, #2.5, #2.6), Stacks and Queues (#3.3), Trees and Graphs (#4.2, #4.3,
#4.4, #4.5, #4.8, #4.10, #4.11, #4.12), Math and Logic Puzzles (#6.6), Sorting and Searching (#10.5, #10.9,
#10.10), C++ (#12.8), Moderate Problems (#16.11), Hard Problems (#17.4, #17.6, #17.8, #17.12, #17.13,
#17.15, #17.16, #17.24, #17.25).

Hints start on page 662.

136

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

System Design and Scalability

De" how intimidating they seem, scalability questions can be among the easiest questions. There

are no “gotchas, no tricks, and no fancy algorithms—at least not usually. What trips up many people is
that they believe there’s something “magic” to these problems—some hidden bit of knowledge.
It’s not like that. These questions are simply designed to see how you would perform in the real world. If you
were asked by your manager to design some system, what would you do?
That's why you should approachit just like this. Tackle the problem by doing it just like you would at work.
Ask questions. Engage the interviewer. Discuss the tradeoffs.
We will touch on some key concepts in this chapter, but recognize it’s not really about memorizing these

concepts. Yes, understanding some big components of system design can be useful, but it's much more

4

about the process you take. There are good solutions and bad solutions. There

is no perfect solution.

Handling the Questions
Communicate: A key goal of system design questions is to evaluate your ability to communicate. Stay

engaged with the interviewer. Ask them questions. Be open about the issues of your system.
Go broad first: Don't dive straight into the algorithm part or get excessively focused on one part.
Use the whiteboard: Using a whiteboard helps your interviewer follow your proposed design. Get up to
the whiteboard in the very beginning and use it to draw a picture of what you're proposing.
Acknowledge interviewer concerns: Your interviewer will likely jump in with concerns. Don’t brush

them off; validate them. Acknowledge the issues your interviewer points out and make changes accordingly.
Be careful about assumptions: An incorrect assumption can dramatically change the problem. For
example, if your system produces analytics / statistics for a dataset, it matters whether those analytics
must be totally up to date.
State your assumptions explicitly: When you do make assumptions, state them. This allows your interviewer to correct you if you're mistaken, and shows that you at least know what assumptions you're
making.

Estimate when necessary: In many cases, you might not have the data you need. For example, if you're
designing a web crawler, you might need to estimate how much space it will take to store all the URLs.
You can estimate this with other data you know.
Drive: As the candidate, you should stay in the driver's seat. This doesn’t mean you don't talk to your

interviewer; in fact, you must talk
to your interviewer. However, you should be driving through the ques-

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

137

Chapter 9 | System Design and Scalability
tion. Ask questions. Be open about tradeoffs. Continue to go deeper. Continue to make improvements.
These questions are largely about the process rather than the ultimate design.

» Design: Step-By-Step
if your manager asked you to design a system such as TinyURL, you probably wouldn't just say, “Okay”, then

lock yourself in your office to design it by yourself. You would probably have a lot more questions before
you do it. This is the way you should handle it in an interview.

Step 1: Scope the Problem
You can’t design a system if you don’t know what you're designing. Scoping the problem is important
because you want to ensure that you're building what the interviewer wants and because this might be
something that interviewer is specifically evaluating.
If you're asked something such as “Design TinyURL’, you'll want to understand what exactly you need to
implement. Will people be able to specify their own short URLs? Or will it all be auto-generated? Will you
need to keep track of any stats on the clicks? Should the URLs stay alive forever, or do they have a timeout?
These are questions that must be answered before going further.
Make a list here as well of the major features or use cases. For example, for TinyURL, it might be:
¢

Shortening a URL to a TinyURL.

«

Analytics for a URL.

*

Retrieving the URL associated with a TinyURL.

«

User accounts and link management.

Step 2: Make Reasonable Assumptions

It's okay to make some assumptions (when necessary), but they should be reasonable. For example, it
would not be reasonable to assume that your system only needs to process 100 users per day, or to assume
that you have infinite memory available.

However, it might be reasonable to design fOr a max of one million new URLs per day. Making this assumption can help you calculate how much data your system might need to store.
Some assumptions might take some “product sense” (which is not a bad thing). For example, is it okay fOr
the data to be stale by a max of ten minutes? That all depends. tf it takes 10 minutes for a just-entered URL
to work, that’s a deal-breaking issue. People usually want these URLs to be active immediately. However, if

the statistics are ten minutes out of date, that might be okay. Talk to your interviewer about these sorts of
assumptions.

Step 3: Draw the Major Components
Get up out of that chair and go to the whiteboard. Draw a diagram of the major components. You might
have something like a frontend server {or set of servers) that pull data from the backend’s data store. You

might have another set of servers that crawl the internet for some data, and another set that process
analytics. Draw a picture of what this system might look like.

Walk through your system from end-to-end to provide a flow. A user enters a new URL. Then what?

138

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Chapter 9 | System Design and Scalability
It may help here to ignore major scalability challenges and just pretend that the simple, obvious approaches

will be okay. You'll handle the big issues in Step 4.

Step 4: Identify the Key Issues

Once you have a basic design in mind, focus on the key issues. What will be the bottlenecks or major challenges in the system?

For example, if you were designing TinyURL, one situation you might consider is that while some URLs will
be infrequently accessed, others can suddenly peak. This might happen if a URL is posted on Reddit or
another popular forum. You don't necessarily want to constantly hit the database.
Your interviewer might provide some guidance here. !f so, take this guidance and use it.

Step 5: Redesign for the Key Issues

Once you have identified the key issues, it’s time to adjust your design for it. You might find that it involves
a major redesign orjust some minor tweaking (like using a cache).
Stay up at the whiteboard here and update your diagram as your design changes.

Be open about any limitations in your design. Your interviewer will likely be aware of them, so it's important
to communicate that you're aware of them, too.

> Algorithms that Scale: Step-By-Step
In some cases, you're not being asked to design an entire system. You're just being asked to design a single
feature or algorithm, but you have to do it in a scalable way. Or, there might be one algorithm part that is

the “real” focus of a broader design question.
In these cases, try the following approach.

Step 1: Ask Questions

As in the earlier approach, ask questions to make sure you really understand the question. There might

be details the interviewer left out (intentionally or unintentionally). You can’t solve a problem if you don't
understand exactly what the problem is.

Step 2: Make Believe

Pretend that the data can all fiton one machine and there are no memory limitations. How would you solve
the problem? The answer to this question will provide the general outline for your solution.

Step 3: Get Real
Now go back to the original problem. How much data can you fit on one machine, and what problems will

occur when you split up the data? Common problems include figuring out how to logically divide the data

up, and how one machine would identify where to look up a different piece ofdata.

Step 4: Solve Problems

Finally, think about how to solve the issues you identified in Step 2. Remember that the solution for each
issue might be to actually remove the issue entirely, or it might be to simply mitigate the issue. Usually, you

CrackingTheCoding!nterview.com | 6th Edition

139

Chapter
9 | System Design and Scalability
can continue using (with modifications) the approach you outlined in Step 1, but occasionally you will need
to fundamentally alter the approach.
Note that an iterative approach is typically useful. That is, once you have solved the problems from Step 3,
new problems may have emerged, and you must tackle those as well.
Your goal is not to re-architect a complex system that companies have spent millions of dollars building,
but rather to demonstrate that you can analyze and solve problems. Poking holes in your own solution is a
fantastic way to demonstrate this.

» Key Concepts
While system design questions aren't really tests of what you know, certain concepts can make things a lot
easier. We will give a brief overview here. All of these are deep, complex topics, so we encourage you to use
online resources for more research.

Horizontal vs. Vertical Scaling
A system can be scaled one of two ways.

-

Vertical scaling means increasing the resources of a specific node. For example, you might add additional memory to a server to improve its ability to handle load changes.

»

Horizontal scaling means increasing the number of nodes. For example, you might add additional
servers, thus decreasing the load on any one server.

Vertical scaling is generally easier than horizontal scaling, but it’s limited. You can only add so much memory
or disk space.

Load Balancer
Typically, some frontend parts of a scalable website will be thrown behind a load balancer. This allows a
system to distribute the load evenly so that one server doesn't crash and take down the whole system. To
do so, of course, you have to build out a network of cloned servers that all have essentially the same code
and access to the same data.

Database Denormalization and NoSQL
Joins in a relational database such as SQL can get very slow as the system grows bigger. For this reason, you
would generally avoid them.
Denormalization is one part of this.Denormalization means adding redundant information into a database
to speed up reads. For example, imagine a database describing projects and tasks (where a project can have
multiple tasks). You might need to get the project name and the task information. Rather than doing ajoin
across these tables, you can store the project name within the task table (in addition to the project table).
Or, you can go with a NoSQL database. A NoSQL database does not support joins and might structure data
in a different way. It is designed to scale better.

Database Partitioning (Sharding)
Sharding means splitting the data across multiple machines while ensuring you have a way of figuring out
which data is on which machine.
A few common ways of partitioning include:

140

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

Chapter 9 | System Design and Scalability
+

Vertical Partitioning:
This is basically partitioning by feature. For example, if you were building a social
network, you might have one partition for tables relating to profiles, another one for messages, and so

on. One drawback of this is that if one of these tables gets very large, you might need to repartition that
database (possibly using a different partitioning scheme).
.

Key-Based (or Hash-Based) Partitioning: This uses some part of the data (for example an ID) to parti-

tion it.

Avery simple way to do this is to allocate N servers and put the dataonmod(key, n).One issue

with this is that the number of servers you have is effectively fixed. Adding additional servers means
reallocating all the data—a very expensive task.
-

Directory-Based Partitioning: In this scheme, you maintain a lookup table for where the data can be
found. This makes it relatively easy to add additional servers, but it comes with two major drawbacks.
First, the lookup table can be a single point of failure. Second, constantly accessing this table impacts
performance.

Many architectures actually end up using multiple partitioning schemes.

Caching

An in-memory cache can deliver very rapid results. It is a simple key-value pairing and typically sits between
your application layer and your data store.

When an application requests a piece of information, it first tries the cache. If the cache does not contain the
key, it will then look up the data in the data store. (At this point, the data might—or might not—be stored
in the data store.)
When you cache, you might cache a query and its results directly. Or, alternatively, you can cache the specific

object (for example, a rendered version of a part of the website, or a list of the most recent blog posts).

Asynchronous Processing & Queues
Slow operations should ideally be done asynchronously. Otherwise, a user might get stuck waiting and

waiting for a process to complete.

In some cases, we can do this in advance (i.e., we can pre-process). For example, we might have a queue of

jobs to be done that update some part of the website. tf we were running a forum, one of these jobs might
be to re-render a page that lists the most popular posts and the number of comments. That list might end

up being slightly out of date, but that’s perhaps okay. It’s better than a user stuck waiting on the website
to load simply because someone added a new comment and invalidated the cached version of this page.
In other cases, we might tell the user to wait and notify them when the process is done. You've probably

seen this on websites before. Perhaps you enabled some new part of a website and it says it needs a few
minutes to import your data, but you'll get a notification when it’s done.

Networking Metrics

Some of the most important metrics around networking include:

-

Bandwidth: This is the maximum amount ofdata that can be transferred in a unit of time. It is typically
expressed in bits per second (or some similar ways, such as gigabytes per second).

-

Throughput: Whereas bandwidth is the maximum data that can be transferred in a unit of time,
throughput is the actual amount ofdata that is transferred.

*

Latency: This is howlong it takes data to go from one end to the other. That is, it is the delay between the

sender sending information (even a very small chunk of data) and the receiver receiving it.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

141

Chapter 9 | System Design and Scalability
Imagine you have a conveyor belt that transfers items across a factory. Latency is the time it takes an item to
go from one side to another. Throughput is the number of items that roll off the conveyor belt per second.

-

Building a fatter conveyor belt will not change latency. It will, however, change throughput and bandwidth. You can get more items on the belt, thus transferring more in a given unit of time.

-

Shortening the belt will decrease latency, since items spend less time in transit. It won't change the

throughput or bandwidth.
The same number of items will roll off the belt per unit of time.
»

Making a faster conveyor belt will change all three. The time it takes an item to travel across the factory
decreases. More items will also roll off the conveyor belt per unit of time.

«

Bandwidth is the number of items that can be transferred per unit of time, in the best possible conditions. Throughput is the time it really takes, when the machines perhaps aren‘t operating smoothly.

Latency can be easy to disregard, but it can be very important in particular situations. For example, if you're
playing certain online games, latency can be a very big deal. How can you play a typical online sports game

(like a two-player football game) if you aren't notified very quickly of your opponent's movement? Additionally, unlike throughput where at least you have the option of speeding things up through data compression, there is often little you can do about latency.

MapReduce

MapReduce is often associated with Google, but it's used much more broadly than that.

A MapReduce

program is typically used to process large amounts of data.
As its name suggests, a MapReduce program requires you to write a Map step and a Reduce step. The rest
is handled by the system.
«

-

Map takes in some data and emitsa<key,

value> pair.

Reduce takes a key and a set of associated values and “reduces” them in some way, emitting a new key
and value. The results of this might be fed back into the Reduce program for more reducing.

MapReduce allows us to do a lot of processing in parallel, which makes processing huge amounts of data
more scalable.

For more information, see “MapReduce” on page 642.

> Considerations
In addition to the earlier concepts to learn, you should consider the following issues when designing a
system.

¢

Failures: Essentially any part of a system can fail. You'll need to plan for many or all of these failures.
Availability and Reliability: Availability is a function of the percentage of time the system is operational. Reliabitity is a function of the probability that the system is operational for a certain unit of time.

*

Read-heavy vs. Write-heavy: Whether an application will do a lot of reads or a lot of writes impacts the
design. If it’s write-heavy, you could consider queuing up the writes (but think about potential failure
here’). If it’s read-heavy, you might want to cache. Other design decisions could change as well.

*

Security: Security threats can, of course, be devastating for a system. Think about the types of issues a
system might face and design around those.

This is just to get you started with the potential issues for a system. Remember to be openin your interview
about the tradeoffs.

142

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Chapter 9 | System Design and Scalability
» There is no “perfect” system.
There is no single design for TinyURL or Google Maps or any other system that works perfectly (although
there are a great number that would work terribly). There are always tradeoffs. Two people could have
substantially different designs for a system, with both being excellent given different assumptions.
Your goal in these problems is to be able to understand use cases, scope a problem, make reasonable
assumptions, create a solid design based on those assumptions, and be open about the weaknesses of your

design. Do not expect something perfect.

» Example Problem
Given a list of millions of documents, how would you find all documents that contain a list of words? The words
can appear in any order, but they must be complete words. That is, “book” does not match “bookkeeper.”

Before we start solving the problem, we need to understand whether this is a one time only operation, or if

this findWords procedure will be called repeatedly. Let’s assume that we will be calling findWords many
times for the same set of documents, and, therefore, we can accept the burden of pre-processing.

Step 1

The first step is to pretend we just have a few dozen documents. How would we implement findWords in
this case? (Tip: stop here and try to solve this yourself before reading on.)
One way to do this is to pre-process each document and create a hash table index. This hash table would

map from a word to a list of the documents that contain that word.
“books” -> {doc2, doc3, doc6,

doc8}

“many”

doc8,

-> {docl,

doc3,

doc7,

doc9}

Tosearch for*many books,’ we would simply do an intersection on the values for“books” and“many’“, and
return {doc3,

doc8} as the result.

Step 2

Now go back to the original problem. What problems are introduced with millions of documents? For
starters, we probably need to divide up the documents across many machines. Also, depending ona

variety

of factors, such as the number of possible words and the repetition of words ina document, we may not be
able to fit the full hash table on one machine. Let’s assume that this is the case.
This division introduces the following key concerns:

1. How will we divide up our hash table? We could divide it up by keyword, such that a given machine

contains the full document list for a given word. Or, we could divide by document, such that a machine
contains the keyword mapping for only a subset of the documents.
2. Once we decide how to divide up the data, we may need to process a document on one machine and

push the results off to other machines. What does this process look like? (Note: if we divide the hash
table by document, this step may not be necessary.)

3. We will need a way of knowing which machine holds a piece of data. What does this lookup table look
like, and where is it Stored?
These are just three concerns. There may be many others,

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

143

Chapter 9 | System Design and Scalability
Step 3

In Step 3, we find solutions to each of these issues. One solution is to divide up the words alphabetically by

keyword, such that each machine controls a range of words (e.g.,“after” through “apple’).
We can implement a simple algorithm in which we iterate through the keywords alphabetically, storing as

much data as possible on one machine. When that machine is full, we can move to the next machine.
The advantage of this approach is that the lookup table is small and simple (since it must only specify a

range of values), and each machine can store a copy of the lookup table. However, the disadvantage Is that
if new documents or words are added, we may need to perform an expensive shift of keywords.
Tofind all the documents that matcha list of strings, we would first sort the list and then send each machine

a lookup request for the strings that the machine owns. For example, if our string is “after
boat amaze banana”, machine 1 would get a lookup request for {“after”,

builds

“amaze”
}.

Machine 1 looks up the documents containing “after” and “amaze,’
and performs an intersection on these

document lists. Machine 3 does the same for {“banana”,

“boat”,

“builds”

}, and intersects their

lists.

In the final step, the initial machine would do an intersection on the results from Machine 1 and Machine 3.
The following diagram explains this process.

“after builds boat amaze banana” |

|

T

Machine 1: “after ama Ze”

|

I

| Machine 3: “builds boat banana” |
I

after”? -> doc1, docs, doc?
rt 9

|

BME

oS

gg

I

T

y

“boat”

=D Ciel IED ye)
{docS5, doc7}

builds

3)

a

> doc3, doc4, doc5S

-> doc2, 5

doc3, ’

docS

“banana” -> doc3, doc4, docS

|

|

i
i

solution = docs

{doc3, doc5S}

|

|

Interview Questions

These questions are designed to mirror a real interview, so they will not always be well defined. Think about
what questions you would ask your interviewer and then make reasonable assumptions. You may make

different assumptions than us, and that will lead you to a very different design. That’s okay!
9.1

Stock Data: Imagine you are building some sort of service that will be called by up to 1,000 client
applications to get simple end-of-day stock price information (open, close, high, low). You may
assume that you already have the data, and you can store it in any format you wish. How would you
design the client-facing service that provides the information to client applications? You are responsible for the development, rollout, and ongoing monitoring and maintenance of the feed. Describe

the different methods you considered and why you would recommend your approach. Your service
can use any technologies you wish, and can distribute the information to the client applications in
any mechanism you choose.
Hints: #385, #396

144

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Chapter 9 | System Design and Scalability
9.2

Social Network: How would you design the data structures for a very large social network like Face-

book or Linked!n? Describe how you would design an algorithm to show the shortest path between
two people (e.g., Me -> Bob -> Susan -> Jason -> You).
Hints: #270, #285, #304, #321

9.3

Web Crawler: If you were designing a web crawler, how would you avoid getting into infinite loops?
Hints: #334, #353, #365

9.4

Duplicate URLs: You have 10 billion URLs. How do you detect the duplicate documents? In this
case, assume “duplicate” means that the URLs are identical.
Hints: #326, #347

9.5

Cache: Imagine a web server for a simplified search engine. This system has 100 machines to
respond to search queries, which may then call out using processSearch(string query) to
anothercluster of machines to actually get the result. The machine which responds to a given query
is chosen at random, so you cannot guarantee that the same machine will always respond to the

same request. The method processSearch is very expensive. Design a caching mechanism for
the most recent queries. Be sure to explain how you would update the cache when data changes.
Hints: #259, #274, #293, #311

9.6

Sales Rank: A large eCommerce company wishes to list the best-selling products, overall and by
category. For example, one product might be the #1056th best-selling productoverall but the #13th

best-selling product under “Sports Equipment” and the #24th best-selling product under "Safety."
Describe how you would design this system.
Hints: #142, #158, #176, #189, #208, #223, #236, #244

pr 284
9.7

Personal Financial Manager: Explain how you would design a personal financial manager (like
Mint.com). This system would connect to your bank accounts, analyze your spending habits, and
make recommendations.
Hints: #162, #180, #199, #212, #247, #276

9.8

Pastebin: Design a system like Pastebin, where a user can enter a piece of text and get a randomly
generated URL to access it.
Hints: #165, #184, #206, #232

Additional Questions: Object-Oriented Design (#7.7)
Hints start on page 662.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

145

Sorting and Searching

U nderstanding the common sorting and searching algorithms is incredibly valuable, as many sorting

and searching problems are tweaks ofthe well-known algorithms. A good approach is therefore to run
through the different sorting algorithms and see if one applies particularly well.
For example, suppose you are asked the following question: Given a very large array of Person objects,
sort the people in increasing order of age.
We're given two interesting bits of knowledge here:

1.

It’s

alarge array, so efficiency is very important.

2. Weare sorting based on ages, so we know the values are in a small range.

By scanning through the various sorting algorithms, we might notice that bucket sort (or radix sort) would
be a perfect candidate for this algorithm. In fact, we can make the buckets small (just 1 year each) and get

O(n) running time.

> Common Sorting Algorithms
Learning (or re-learning) the common sorting algorithms is a great way to boost your performance. Of the
five algorithms explained below, Merge Sort, Quick Sort and Bucket Sort are the most commonly used in
interviews.

Bubble Sort | Runtime: O(n’)

average and worst case. Memory: O(1).

In bubble sort, we start at the beginning of the array and swap the first two elements if the first is greater
than the second. Then, we go to the next pair, and so on, continuously making sweeps of the array until it is
sorted. In doing so, the smaller items slowly “bubble”
up to the beginning of the list.

Selection Sort | Runtime: O(n?) average and worst case. Memory: 0(1)

.

Selection sort is the child’s algorithm: simple, but inefficient. Find the smallest element using a linear scan
and move it to the front (swapping it with the front element). Then, find the second smallest and move it,
again doing a linear scan. Continue doing this until all the elements are in place.

Merge Sort | Runtime: O(n log(n) ) average and worst case. Memory: Depends.
Merge sort divides the array in half, sorts each of those halves, and then merges them back together. Each

of those halves has the same sorting algorithm applied to it. Eventually, you are merging just two single-

element arrays. It is the “merge” part that does all the heavy lifting.

146

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Chapter 10 | Sorting and Searching
The merge method operates by copying all the elements from the target array segment into a helper array,

keeping track of where the start of the left and right halves should be (helperLeft and helperRight).
We then iterate through helper, copying the smaller element from each half into the array. At the end, we
copy any remaining elements into the target array.
1

void mergesort(int[]

Ds

array)

{

int[] helper = new int[array.length];

3

mergesort(array,

helper, 9,

4

4}

5
6

void mergesort(int[]

array,

array.length - 1);

int[]

helper,

int high)

{

int middle = (low + high) / 2;

9

mergesort(array,

helper,

low,

18

mergesort(array,

helper,

middle+1,

11

merge(array,

helper,

low,

middle);

// Sort left half

high);

// Sort

right half

middle,

high);

// Merge them

helper,

int low,

int middle,

}

12
13

int low,

if (low < high) {

7
8

}

14

15

void merge(int[]

array,

int[]

16

/* Copy both halves into a helper array */

yf

for

18

(int

i = low;

helper[i]

i <= high;

i++)

int high)

{

{

= array[i];

19

}

21

int helperLeft = low;

22

int helperRight = middle + 1;

23

int current = low;

24

25

/*

26

Iterate through

helper array.

Compare the left

and

right

half,

copying back

* the smaller element from the two halves into the original array.

27

while

28

if

29

(helperLeft <= middle && helperRight <= high)
(helper[helperLeft]
array[current]

38

<= helper[helperRight])

*/

{

{

= helper[helperLeft
];

helperLeft++;

31

} else { // If right element is smaller than left element

32

array[current]

33

helperRight++;

34

}

35

current++;

36

= helper[helperRight
];

}

37

38

/* Copy the rest of the left side of the array into the target array */

3g

int remaining = middle -

48

for (int i = @;

41

i++)

{

array[current + i] = helper[helperLeft + i];
}

42
43

helperLeft;

i <= remaining;

}

You may notice that only the remaining elements from the left half of the helper array are copied into the

target array. Why not the right half? The right half doesn’t need to be copied because it’s already there.

Consider, for example, anarraylike[1, 4, 5 || 2, 8, 9] (the*| |”indicates
the partition point). Prior
to merging the two halves, both the helper array and the target array segment will end with [8,
we copy over four elements(1, 4,

5, and 2) intothe target array, the [8,

9].Once

9] willstill be in place in both

arrays. There's no need to copy them over.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

147

Chapter 10 | Sorting and Searching
The space complexity of merge sort is O(n) due to the auxiliary space used to merge parts of the array.

Quick Sort | Runtime: O(n log(n)) average, O(n?) worst case. Memory: 0(log(n)).
In quick sort, we picka random element and partition the array, such that all numbers that are less than the
partitioning element come before all elements that are greater than it. The partitioning can be performed
efficiently through a series of swaps (see below).
if we repeatedly partition the array (and its sub-arrays) around an element, the array will eventually become
sorted. However, as the partitioned element is not guaranteed to be the median (or anywhere near the

median), our sorting could be very slow. This is the reason for the O(n”) worst case runtime.
1

void quickSort(int[]

arr,

int left,

int right) {

2

int index = partition(arr,

3

if (left < index - 1) { // Sort left half

4

quickSort(arr,

3

}

s

if (index <

o

right)

quickSort(arr,

8
9

left,

{

left,

index

-

right);
1);

// Sort right half

index,

right);

i

19

41

int partition(int[]

arr,

int left,

a2

int pivot = arr[(left + right)

13

while

(left <= right)

14

//

a

while

<

right)

2];

//

{

Pick

pivot

point

{

Find element on left that

(arr[left]

int

/

pivot)

should be on right

leftt;

i’

shad

// Find element on right that should be on left

18

while

(arr[right]

> pivot)

right--;

18

28

// Swap elements,

21

if (left <= right) {

22

swap(arr,

23

left++;

24

right);

//

right

indices

swaps elements

right--;

25

}

26

}

return left;

27
28

left,

and move left and

}

Radix Sort | Runtime: O(kn)

(see below)

Radix sort is a sorting algorithm for integers (and some other data types) that takes advantage of the

fact that integers have a finite number of bits. In radix sort, we iterate through each digit of the number,
grouping numbers by each digit. For example, if we have an array of integers, we might first sort by the

first digit, so that the Os are grouped together. Then, we sort each of these groupings by the next digit. We
repeat this process sorting by each subsequent digit, until finally the whole array is sorted.

Unlike comparison sorting algorithms, which cannot perform better than O(n

log(n)) in the average

case, radix sort has a runtime of O( kn), where n is the number of elements and k is the number of passes
of the sorting algorithm.

148

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Chapter 10 | Sorting and Searching
> Searching Algorithms
When we think of searching algorithms, we generally think of binary search. \ndeed, this is a very useful
algorithm to study.
In binary search, we look for an element x in a sorted array byfirst comparing xX to the midpoint ofthe array.

If x is less than the midpoint, then we search the left haif of the array. If x is greater than the midpoint, then
we search the right half of the array. We then repeat this process, treating the left and right halves as subarrays. Again, we compare x to the midpoint of this subarray and then search either its left or right side. We
repeat this process until we either find x or the subarray has size 0.
Note that although the concept is fairly simple, getting all the details right is far more difficult than you
might think. As you study the code below, pay attention to the plus ones and minus ones.
iL

int binarySearch(int[]

a,

int x) {

2

int low = Q;

3

int high = a.length - 1;

4

int mid;

5

6

while

(low <= high)

{

7

mid = (low + high)

8

if (a[mid]

3

< x)

low = mid + 1;

18

} else if

(a[mid]

11

high

-

12

} else {

13

= mid

> x)

{

1;

return mid;

14

}

15

}

16
17

/ 2;

{

return

-1;

//

Error

}

18

19

int binarySearchRecursive(int[]

28

if

22

int mid = (low + high)

23

if (a[mid]

24

high)

return -1;

a,

int x,

26

int high)

{

/ 2;

< x) {

} else if (a[mid]

> x)

xX,

mid + 1,

high);

x,

low, mid - 1);

{

return binarySearchRecursive(a,

27

int low,

// Error

return binarySearchRecursive(a,

25

} else {

28

return mid;

28

38

(low >

}

}

Potential ways to search a data structure extend beyond binary search, and you would do best not to limit
yourself to just this option. You might, for example, search for a node by leveraging a binary tree, or by using
a hash table. Think beyond binary search!

Interview Questions
10.1

Sorted Merge: You are given two sorted arrays, A and B, where A has a large enough buffer at the
end to hold B. Write a method to merge B into
A in sorted order.
Hints: #332

CrackingTheCoding!nterview.com | 6th Edition

149

Chapter 10 | Sorting and Searching
Group Anagrams: Write a method to sort an array of strings so that all the anagrams are next to
each other.
Hints:

10.3

#177, #182, #263, #342

Search in Rotated Array: Given a sorted array of n integers that has been rotated an unknown
number of times, write code to find an element in the array. You may assume that the array was
originally sorted in increasing order.
EXAMPLE

Input: find

5inf15,

16,

19,

20,

25,

1,

3,

4,

5,

7,

10,

14}

Output: 8 (the index of 5 in the array)
Hints: #298, #310

10.4

Sorted Search, No Size: You are given an array-like data structure Listy which lacks a size

method. It does, however, have an elementAt
(i) method that returns the element at index i in
O(1) time. If i is beyond the bounds of the data structure, it returns -1. (For this reason, the data
structure only supports positive integers.) Given a Listy which contains sorted, positive integers,
find the index at which an element x occurs. Ifx occurs multiple times, you may return any index.
Hints: #320, #337, #348

10.5

Sparse Search: Given a sorted array of strings that is interspersed with empty strings, write a

method to find the location of a given string.
EXAMPLE
Input:

ball

.

{“at”

f

COId

)

€€33

J

CEI)

J

hall”

J

C63)

3

Codd

J

cea

J

C63)

3

€€33

J

“dad”

e

€€33

a

J

7}

Output: 4

Hints: #256

10.6

Sort Big File: Imagine you have a 20 GB file with one string per line. Explain how you would sort
the file.
Hints: #207

10.7

Missing Int: Given an input file with four billion non-negative integers, provide an algorithm to

generate an integer that is not contained in the file. Assume you have 1 GB of memory available
for
this task.
FOLLOW UP

What if you have only 10 MB of memory? Assume that all the values are distinct and we now have
no more than one billion non-negative integers.
Hints: #235, #254, #281

150

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Chapter 10 | Sorting and Searching
10.8

Find Duplicates: You have an array with all the numbers from 1 to N, where N is at most 32,000. The
array may have duplicate entries and you do not know what N is. With only 4 kilobytes of memory
available, how would you print all duplicate elements in the array?
Hints: #289, #315

10.9

Sorted Matrix Search: Given an M x N matrix in which each row and each column is sorted in
ascending order, write a method to find an element.
Hints: #193, #211, #229, #251, #266, #279, #288, #291, #303, #317, #330

10.10

Rank from Stream: Imagine you are reading in a stream ofintegers. Periodically, you wish to be able

to look up the rank of a number x (the number of values less than or equal to x). Implement the data

structures and algorithms to support these operations. That is, implement the method track(int

x), which is called when each number is generated, and the method getRankOfNumber
(int
x), which returns the number of values less than or equal to x (not including x itself).
EXAMPLE

Stream (in order of appearance):5,

getRankOfNumber(1)

= @

getRankOfNumber(3)

= 1

getRankOfNumber(4)

= 3

1,

4,

4,

5,

9,

7,

13,

3

Hints: #301, #376, #392

10.11

Peaks and Valleys: in an array of integers, a”peak” is an element which is greater than or equal to

the adjacent integers and a”valley” is an element which is less than or equal to the adjacent integers. For example, in the array {5, 8, 6, 2, 3, 4, 6}, {8, 6} are peaks and {5, 2} are valleys. Given an array

of integers, sort the array into an alternating sequence of peaks and valleys.
EXAMPLE

Input: {5, 3, 1, 2, 3}

Output: {5, 1, 3, 2, 3}
Hints: #196, #219, #23 1,#253, #277, #292, #316

Additional! Questions: Arrays and Strings (#1.2), Recursion (#8.3), Moderate (#16.10, #16.16, #16.21, #16.24),
Hard (#17.11, #17.26).
Hints start on page 662.

CrackingTheCodinglnterview.com | 6th Edition

151

11
Testing

efore you flip past this chapter saying, “but I’m not a tester,’ stop and think. Testing is an important task
for a software engineer, and for this reason, testing questions may come up during your interview. Of

course, if you are applying for Testing roles (or Software Engineer in Test), then that’s all the more reason
why you need to pay attention.
Testing problems usually fall under one of four categories: (1) Test a real world object (like a pen); (2)

Test a piece of software; (3) Write test code for a function; (4) Troubleshoot an existing issue. We'll cover
approaches for each of these four types.

Remember that all four types require you to not make an assumption that the input or the user will play
nice. Expect abuse and plan for it.

> What the Interviewer Is Looking For
At their surface, testing questions seem like they’re just about coming up with an extensive list of test cases.
And to some extent, that's right. You do need to come up with a reasonable list of test cases.

But in addition, interviewers want to test the following:
+

Big Picture Understanding: Are you a person who understands what the software is really about? Can

you prioritize test cases properly? For example, suppose you're asked to test an e-commerce system like
Amazon. It's great to make sure that the product images appear in the right place, but it’s even more
important that payments work reliably, products are added to the shipment queue, and customers are
never double charged.

+

Knowing How the Pieces Fit Together: Do you understand how software works, and how it might fit into
a greater ecosystem? Suppose you're asked to test Google Spreadsheets. It’s important that you test

opening, saving, and editing documents. But, Google Spreadsheets is part of a larger ecosystem. You
need to test integration with Gmail, with plug-ins, and with other components.
*

Organization: Do you approach the problem in a structured manner, or do you just spout off anything

that comes to your head? Some candidates, when asked to come up with test cases for a camera, will
just state anything and everything that comes to their head. A good candidate will break down the parts
into categories like Taking Photos, Image Management, Settings, and so on. This structured approach

will also help you to do a more thorough job creating the test cases.
*

Practicality: Can you actually create reasonable testing plans? For example, if a user reports that the

software crashes when they open a specific image, and you just tell them to reinstall the software, that’s
typically not very practical. Your testing plans need to be feasible and realistic for a company to implement.

152

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Chapter 11 | Testing
Demonstrating these aspects will show that you will be a valuable member ofthe testing team.

> Tasting a Real World Object
Some candidates are surprised to be asked questions like how to test a pen. After all, you should be testing

software, right? Maybe, but these “real world” questions are still very common. Let’s walk through this with
an example.

Question: How would you test a paperclip?

Step 1: Who

will use it? And why?

You need to discuss with your interviewer who is using the product and for what purpose. The answer may
not be what you think. The answer could be “by teachers, to hold papers together,’
or it could be “by artists,

to bend into the shape of animal.” Or, it could be both. The answer to this question will shape how you
handle the remaining questions.

Step 2: What are the use cases?

It will be useful for you to makea list of the use cases. !n this case, the use case might be simply fastening
paper together in a non-damaging (to the paper) way.
For other questions, there might be multiple use cases. It might be, for example, that the product needs to
be able to send and receive content, or write and erase, and so on.

Step 3: What are the bounds of use?
The bounds of use might mean holding up to thirty sheets of paper in a single usage without permanent
damage (e.g., bending), and thirty to fifty sheets with minimal permanent bending.
The bounds also extend to environmental factors as well. For example, should the paperclip work during
very warm temperatures (90 -

110 degrees Fahrenheit)? What about extreme cold?

Step 4: What are the stress / failure conditions?
No product is fail-proof, so analyzing failure conditions needs to be part of your testing. A good discussion
to have with your interviewer is about when it’s acceptable (or even necessary) for the product to fail, and
what failure should mean.

For example, if you were testing a laundry machine, you might decide that the machine should be able to

handle at least 30 shirts or pants. Loading 30 - 45 pieces of clothing may result in minor failure, such as the
clothing being inadequately cleaned. At more than 45 pieces ofclothing, extreme failure might be accept-

able. However, extreme failure in this case should probably mean the machine never turning on the water.
It should certainly not mean a flood or a fire.

Step 5: How would you perform the testing?
In some cases, it might also be relevant to discuss the details of performing the testing. For example, if you
need to make sure a chair can withstand normal usage for five years, you probably can't actually place it ina

home and wait five years. Instead, you'd need to define what “normal”
usage is (How many “sits” per year on
the seat? What about the armrest?). Then, in addition to doing some manual testing, you would likely want
a machine to automate some of the usage.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

153

Chapter 11 | Testing
> Testing a Piece of Software
Testing a piece of software is actually very similar to testing a real world object. The major difference is that
software testing generally places a greater emphasis on the details of performing testing.
Note that software testing has two core aspects to it:
-

Manual vs. Automated Testing: In an ideal world, we might love to automate everything, but that’s rarely

feasible. Some things are simply much better with manual testing because some features are too quali-

tative for a computer to effectively examine (such as if Content represents pornography). Additionally,
whereas a computer can generally recognize only issues that it’s been told to look for, human observation may reveal new issues that haven't been specifically examined. Both humans and computers form
an essential part of the testing process.
*

Black Box Testing vs. White Box Testing: This distinction refers to the degree of access we have into the
software. In black box testing, we're just given the software as-is and need to test it. With white box
testing, we have additional programmatic access to test individual functions. We can also automate
some black box testing, although it’s certainly much harder.

Let's walk through an approach from start to end.

Step 1: Are we doing Black Box Testing or White Box Testing?

Though this question can often be delayed to a later step, | like to get it out of the way early on. Check with
your interviewer as to whether you're doing black box testing or white box testing—or both.

Step 2: Who will use it? And why?
Software typically has one or more target users, and the features are designed with this in mind. For
example, if you‘re asked to test software for parental controls on a web browser, your target users include
both parents (who are implementing the blocking) and children (who are the recipients of blocking). You
may also have “guests” (people who should neither be implementing nor receiving blocking).

Step 3: What are the use cases?

In the software blocking scenario, the use cases of the parents include installing the software, updating
controls, removing controls, and of course their own personal internet usage. For the children, the use cases

include accessing legal content as well as “illegal” content.
Remember that it’s not up to you to just magically decide the use cases. This is a conversation to have with
your interviewer.

Step 4: What are the bounds of use?
Now that we have the vague use cases defined, we need to figure out what exactly this means. What does
it mean for a website to be blocked? Should just the “illegal” page be blocked, or the entire website? Is the
application supposed to“learn” what is bad content, or is it based on a white list or black list? If it’s supposed
to learn what inappropriate content is, what degree of false positives or false negatives is acceptable?

Step 5: What are the stress conditions / failure conditions?

When the software fails—which it inevitably will—what should the failure look like? Clearly, the software
failure shouldn't crash the computer. Instead, it’s likely that the software should just permit a blocked site,

154

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Chapter 11 | Testing
or ban an allowable site. In the latter case, you might want to discuss the possibility of a selective override

with a password from the parents.
Step 6: What are the test cases? How would you perform the testing?
Here is where the distinctions between manual and automated testing, and between black box and white

box testing, really come into play.
Steps 3 and 4 should have roughly defined the use cases. In step 6, we further define them and discuss

how to perform the testing. What exact situations are you testing? Which of these steps can be automated?
Which require human intervention?
Remember that while automation allows you to do some very powerful testing, it also has some significant
drawbacks. Manual testing should usually be part of your test procedures.

When you go through this list, don’t just rattle off every scenario you can think of. It's disorganized, and
you
re sure to miss major categories. Instead, approach this in a structured manner. Break down your testing
into the main components, and go from there. Not only will you give a more complete list of test cases, but
you'll also show that you're a structured, methodical person.

> Testing a Function
In many ways, testing a function is the easiest type of testing. The conversation is typically briefer and less
vague, as the testing is usually limited to validating input and output.
However, don’t overlook the value of some conversation with your interviewer. You should discuss any
assumptions with your interviewer, particularly with respect to how to handle specific situations.

Suppose you were asked to write code to test Sort (int[ ] array), which sorts an array of integers.
You
might proceed as follows.

Step 1: Define the test cases
In general, you should think about the following types of test cases:
+

Thenormal case: Does it generate the correct output for typical inputs? Remember to think about potential issues here. For example, because sorting often requires some sort of partitioning, it’s reasonable to

think that the algorithm might fail on arrays with an odd number of elements, since they can't be evenly
partitioned. Your test case should list both examples.
+

The extremes:What happens when you pass in an empty array? Or a very small (one element) array? What

if you pass in a very large one?
*

Nulls and “illegal” input: \t is worthwhile to think about how the code should behave when given illegal
input. For example, if you're testing a function to generate the nth Fibonacci number, your test cases
should probably include the situation where n is negative.

-

Strange input: A fourth kind of input sometimes comes up: strange input. What happens when you pass
in an already sorted array? Or an array that’s sorted in reverse order?

Generating these tests does require knowledge of the function you are writing. If you are unclear as to the
constraints, you will need to ask your interviewer about this first.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

155

Chapter 11 | Testing
Step 2: Define the expected result
Often, the expected result is obvious: the right output. However, in some cases, you might want to validate
additional aspects. For instance, if the sort method returns a new sorted copy of the array, you should
probably validate that the original array has not been touched.

Step 3: Write test code
Once you have the test cases and results defined, writing the code to implement the test cases should be
fairly straightforward. Your code might look something like:
1

void testAddThreeSorted()

2

{

MyList list = new MyList();

3

list.addThreeSorted(3,

4

assertEquals(list.getElement(@),

1,

2);

// Adds
1);

5

assertEquals(list.getElement(1),

2);

6

assertEquals(list.getElement(2),

3);

3 items in sorted order

?

> Troubleshooting Questions
A final type of question is explaining how you would debug or troubleshoot an existing issue. Many candidates balk at a question like this, giving unrealistic answers like “reinstall the software.’
You can approach
these questions in a structured manner, like anything else.
Let’s walk through this problem with an example: You're working on the Google Chrome team when you
receive a bug report: Chrome crashes on launch. What would you do?
Reinstalling the browser might solve this user’s problem, but it wouldn’t help the other users who might
be experiencing the same issue. Your goal is to understand what's really happening, so that the developers
can fix it.

Step 1: Understand the Scenario
The first thing you should do is ask questions to understand as much about the situation as possible.

«

Howlong has the user been experiencing this issue?

-

What version of the browser is it? What operating system?

-

Does the issue happen consistently, or how often does it happen? When does it happen?

-

Is there an error report that launches?

Step 2: Break Down the Problem

Now that you understand the details of the scenario, you want to break down the problem into testable
units. In this case, you can imagine the flow of the situation as follows:
1.

Go to Windows Start menu.

2. Click on Chrome icon.
3.

Browser instance starts.

4.

Browser loads settings.

5.

Browser issues HTTP request for homepage.

156

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Chapter 11 | Testing
6.

Browser gets HTTP response.

7. Browser parses webpage.
8. Browser displays content.

At some point in this process, something fails and it causes the browser to crash. A strong tester would

iterate through the elements of this scenario to diagnose the problem.

Step 3: Create Specific, Manageable Tests
Each of the above components should have realistic instructions—things that you can ask the user to do, or

things that you can do yourself (such as replicating steps on your own machine). In the real world, you will
be dealing with customers, and you can't give them instructions that they can’t or won't do.

Interview Questions

11.1.

Mistake: Find the mistake(s) in the following code:
unsigned

for

int

i;

(i = 100;

i

>= 0;

printf(“%d\n”,

--i)

i);

Hints: #257, #299, #362
a

11.2

ee

Random Crashes: You are given the source to an application which crashes when it is run. After

running it ten times in a debugger, you find it never crashes in the same place. The application is
single threaded, and uses only the C standard library. What programming errors could be causing
this crash? How would you test each one?
Hints: #325

11.3.

Chess Test: We have the following method used in achess game: boolean canMoveTo(int x,

int y).This method is part of the Piece class and returns whether or not the piece can move to
position (x, y). Explain how you would test this method.
Hints: #329, #401

11.4

No Test Tools: How would you load test a webpage without using any test tools?
Hints: #313, #345

11.5

Testa Pen: How would you test a pen?
Hints: #140,

11.6

#164, #220

Test an ATM: How would you test an ATM in a distributed banking system?
Hints: #210, #225, #268, #349, #393

Hints start on page 662.

CrackingTheCodingI!nterview.com| 6th Edition

157

12
C and C++

good interviewer won't demand that you code in a language you don't profess to know. Hopefully,

if you're asked to code in C++, it’s listed on your resume. If you don’t remember all the APIs, don’t
worry—most interviewers (though not all) don’t care that much. We do recommend, however, studying up
on basic C++ syntax so that you can approach these questions with ease.

> Classes and Inheritance
Though C++ classes have similar characteristics to those of other languages, we'll review some of the syntax
below.

The code below demonstrates the implementation of a basic class with inheritance.
1

#include <iostream>

2

uSing

namespace

std;

)

4

#define NAME SIZE 5@ // Defines

a macro

5

6

class Person {

a

int id;

8

char

// all members

are

private

by default

name[NAME_SIZE];

g

16

public:

11

void aboutMe() {

12

cout << “I am a person.”;

oe)

}

14};
15

ié@

class Student

17

18

public

void aboutMe()

is

Person {

{

cout << “I am a student.”;

290

2

:

~=public:

}

ie

22

23

int main()

{

24

Student * p = new Student();

PS:

p->aboutMe(); // prints “I am a student.”

26

delete

2?

return @;

28

p;

//

Important!

Make

sure to delete

}

158

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

allocated memory.

Chapter 12 |

Cand C++

All data members and methods are private by default in C++. One can modify this by introducing the

keyword public.

> Constructors and Destructors
The constructor of a class is automatically called upon an object's creation. If no constructor is defined, the
compiler automatically generates one called the Default Constructor. Alternatively, we can define our own
constructor.

If you just need to initialize primitive types, a simple way to do it is this:
L

Person(int a)

2

id

{

= a;

Sf
This works for primitive types, but you might instead want to do this:
1

Person(int a)

:

id(a)

{

2

a

tf

The data member id is assigned before the actual object is created and before the remainder of the
constructor code is called. This approach is necessary when the fields are constant or class types.

The destructor cleans up upon object deletion and is automatically called when an object is destroyed. It
cannot take an argument as we don't explicitly call a destructor.
4

~Person() {

2

3

delete obj;

// free any memory allocated within class

fF

> Virtual Functions
In an earlier example, we defined p to be of type Student:
1

Student * p = new Student();

2

p->aboutMe() ;

What would happen if we defined p to be a PersonTM%, like so?
1

Person

2

p->aboutMe();

*

p

=

new Student();

Inthis case,“I am a person” would be printed instead. This is because the function aboutMe is resolved
at compile-time, in a mechanism known as static binding.
If we want to ensure that the Student’s implementation of aboutMe is called, we can define aboutMe in

class

8

ow) OV OF da

iss RO

pS

the Person class to be virtual.
Person

{

virtual void aboutMe()
cout << “I am a

}

{

person.”;

}

class

Student

:

public

Person

{

public:
void aboutMe()

od
Ph

{

cout << “I am a

ft

18

student.”;

}

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com| 6th Edition

159

Chapter 12 | Cand C++
wey

PS

Another usage for virtual functions is when we can't (or don’t want to) implement a method for the parent
class. Imagine, for example, that we want Student and Teacher to inherit from Person so that we

can implement a common method such as addCourse(string

s). Calling addCourse on Person,

however, wouldn’t make much sense since the implementation depends on whether the object is actually
a Student or Teacher.

In this case, we might want addCourse to be a virtual function defined within Person, with the implementation being left to the subclass.
1

class

Person {

2

int id;

3

char name[NAME STZE];

4

public:

5

virtual void aboutMe() {

6

//

cout

all members are

private

<< “I am a person.” << endl;

}

7

virtual bool addCourse(string s)

3

by default

= @;

2:
10

11

class

Student

:

public

12

public:

43

void aboutMe()

14

cout

15

<<

Person {

{

“I am a

student.”

<<

endl;

}

16

1?

bool addCourse(string s)

18

cout

18

return

28

21

{

<< “Added course ” <<

s

<<

“ to student.” << endl;

true;

}

3};

22

23

int main()

24

{

Person * p = new Student();

25

p->aboutMe();

26

p->addCourse(“History”)
;

27
28

delete

// prints “I am a student.”

p;

}

Note that by defining addCourse to be a “pure virtual function,’ Person is now an abstract class and we
cannot instantiate it.

> Virtual Destructor
The virtual function naturally introduces the concept of a “virtual destructor.” Suppose we wanted to implement a destructor method for Person and Student. A naive solution might look like this:
1

class

2

3

~Person()

4

)
6

Person {

public:

{

cout << “Deleting a person.” << endl;

fs

t

o

8

class Student

8

:

public Person {

public:

160

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Chapter 12 |
12

~Student()

11

Cand C++

{

cout << “Deleting a student.” << endl;

12

}

13};
14

15

int main()

16

1?
18

{

Person * p = new Student();

delete p; // prints “Deleting a person.”
}

As in the earlier example, since p is a Person, the destructor for the Person class is called. This is problem-

atic because the memory for Student may not be cleaned up.
To fix this, we simply define the destructor
for Person to be virtual.
1

class Person {
public:

2

virtual ~Person()

3

{

cout << “Deleting a person.” << endl;

4

5}
in

6
ri
8

class Student

18

public Person {

~Student()
{

11

cout << “Deleting a student.” << endl;

42

13

:

public:

9

}

5

14

15

int main() {

16

Person * p = new Student();

17

delete p;

18

}

This will output the following:
Deleting a student.
Deleting a

person.

> Default Values
Functions can specify default values, as shown below. Note that all default parameters must be on the right

he

int func(int a,
X

mW

Re

side of the function declaration, as there would be no other way to specify how the parameters line up.

y= b;

=

int b = 3)

{

a3

ll

=

func (4);

iT)

N

ew

Ow

return a + b;

func(4,

5);

>» Operator Overloading
Operator overloading enables us to apply operators like + to objects that would otherwise not support

these operations. For example, if we wanted to merge two BookShe Lves into one, we could overload the
+ operator as follows.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

161

Chapter 12 | C and C++
i

=BookShelf BookShelf: :operator+(BookShelf &other)

{

...

}

>» Pointers and References
A pointer holds the address of a variable and can be used to perform any operation that could be directly
done on the variable, such as accessing and modifying it.

Two pointers can equal each other, such that changing one’s value also changes the other's value (since

they, in fact, point to the same address).
4

int *

2

*p= 7;

p = new int;

3

int *q=p;

A

*p = 8;

5

cout << *q;

// prints 8

Note that the size of a pointer varies depending on the architecture: 32 bits on a 32-bit machine and 64

bits on a 64-bit machine. Pay attention to this difference, as it’s common for interviewers to ask exactly how
much space a data structure takes up.

References
A reference is another name (an alias) fora pre-existing object and it does not have memory of its own. For
example:
4

Ghivass5:

2

int & b = a;

3

b=7;3

4

cout << a;

// prints 7

In line 2 above, b is a reference to a; modifying b will also modify a.

You cannot create a reference without specifying where in memory it refers to. However, you can create a
free-standing reference as shown below:
i

/* allocates memory to store 12 and makes b a reference to this

2

3

*

piece of memory.

const

*/

int & b = 12;

Unlike pointers, references cannot be null and cannot be reassigned to another piece of memory.

Pointer Arithmetic
One will often see programmers perform addition on a pointer, such as what you see below:
1

int * p = new int[2];

2
3

p[e@] = @;
p[i1] = 1;

4

p+t;

5

cout <<

*p;

// Outputs 1

Performing p++ will skip ahead by sizeof(int) bytes, such that the code outputs 1. Had p been of
different type, it would skip ahead as many bytes as the size of the data structure.

162

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Chapter 12 | Cand C++

> Templates
Templates are a way of reusing Code to apply the same class to different data types. For example, we might
have a list-like data structure which we would like to use for lists of various types. The code below imple-

ments this with the ShiftedList class.
2

‘template <class Teclass Shiftedlist {

2

T* array;

3

4

int offset,

size;

public:

5

ShiftedList(int sz)

6

:

offset(@),

size(sz)

{

array = new T[size];

7

i

8

9

~ShiftedList() {

18

delete

11

[]

array;

}

12

13

void shiftBy(int n) {

4

offset =

15

(offset + n) % size;

}

16

17

T getAt(int i)

18

{

return array[convertIndex(i)
];

19

}

20

Bil

void setAt(T item, int i) {

22

array[convertIndex(i)]

23

= item;

}

24

25

private:

26

int convertIndex(int i)

27

int index =

28

while

29

38

{

(i - offset)

(index < @)

% size;

index += size;

return index;

}

31};

Interview Questions
12.1

Last K Lines: Write a method to print the last K lines of an input file using C++.
Hints: #449, #459

12.2

Reverse String: Implement a function void

reverse(char*

str) inC or C++ which reverses

a null-terminated string.
Hints: #410, #452

GY 423
ns

12.3.

Hash Table vs. STL Map: Compare and contrast a hash table and an STL map. How is a hash table
implemented? If the number of inputs is small, which data structure options can be used instead of

a hash table?

Hints: #423
8G 423

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

163

Chapter 12 |
12.4

Cand C++

Virtual Functions: How do virtual functions work in C++?
Hints: #463

12.5

Shallow vs. Deep Copy: What is the difference between deep copy and shallow copy? Explain how
you would use each.
Hints: #445

12.6

Volatile: What is the significance of the keyword “volatile”
in C?
Hints: #456

12.7

Virtual Base Class: Why does a destructor in base class need to be declared virtual?
Hints: #421, #460
_

12.8

om

nf tf BEF

Copy Node: Write a method that takes a pointer to a Node structure as a parameter and returns a
complete copy of the passed in data structure. The Node data structure contains two pointers to
other Nodes.
Hints: #427, #462

12.9

Smart Pointer: Write a smart pointer class. A smart pointer is a data type, usually implemented with
templates, that simulates a pointer while also providing automatic garbage collection. It automati-

cally counts the number of references to a SmartPointer<T*>

object and frees the object of type

T when the reference count hits zero.
Hints: #402, #438, #453

12.10

Malloc: Write an aligned malloc and free function that supports allocating memory such that the
memory address returned is divisible by a specific power of two.
EXAMPLE

align_malloc (100,128) will return

amemory address that is a multiple of 128 and that points

to memory of size 1000 bytes.

aligned free() will free memory allocated by align malloc.
Hints: #413, #432, #440

12.11

2D Alloc: Write a function in C called my2DAl1loc which allocates a two-dimensional array. Minimize the number of calls to mal loc and make sure that the memory is accessible by the notation

arr[i][j].
Hints: #406, #418, #426

Additional Questions: Linked Lists (#2.6), Testing (#11.1), Java (#13.4), Threads and Locks (#15.3).
Hints start on page 676.

164

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Java

hile Java-related questions are found throughout this book, this chapter deals with questions about
the language and syntax. Such questions are more unusual at bigger companies, which believe more

in testing a candidate's aptitude than a candidate’s knowledge (and which have the time and resources

to train a candidate in a particular language). However, at other companies, these pesky questions can be
quite common.

> How to Approach
As these questions focus so much on knowledge, it may seem silly to talk about an approach to these problems. After all, isn’t it just about knowing the right answer?
Yes and no. Of course, the best thing you can do to master these questions is to learn Java inside and out.
But, if you do get stumped, you can try to tackle it with the following approach:

1. Create an example of the scenario, and ask yourself how things should play out.
2. Ask yourself how other languages would handle this scenario.

3. Consider how you would design this situation if you were the language designer. What would the implications of each choice be?
Your interviewer may be equally—or more—impressed if you can derive the answer than if you automati-

cally knew it. Don’t try to bluff though. Tell the interviewer, “I’m not sure | can recall the answer, but let me
see if | can figure it out. Suppose we have this code...”

> Overloading vs. Overriding
Overloading is a term used to describe when two methods have the same name but differ in the type or

number of arguments.
1

public double computeArea(Circle c)

{

...

}

2

public double computeArea(Square

{

...

}

s)

Overriding, however, occurs when a method shares the same name and function signature as another
method in its super class.

1

public abstract class Shape {

2

public void printMe()

3

{

System.out.printIn(“I am a shape.”);

4

}

5

public abstract double computeArea()
;

6

ii

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

165

Chapter 13 | Java
5

8

public

class Circle extends Shape {

g

private double rad = 5;

19

public void

11

printMe()

{

System.out.printin(“I

12

am a circle.”);

}

13

14

public double computeArea()

a5

return rad * rad *

16
17

{

3.15;

}
}

18

18

public class Ambiguous extends Shape {

28

private double area = 10;

21

public double computeArea()

22

return

23

24

{

area;

}

}

25

26

public class

27

public

28

IntroductionOverriding {

static void main(String[]

Shape[]

args)

{

shapes = new Shape[2];

23

Circle circle = new Circle();

3e

Ambiguous ambiguous = new Ambiguous();

31

32

shapes[@]

= circle;

33

shapes[1]

= ambiguous;

34

35

for (Shape s

36
37

shapes)

{

System.out.printin(s.computeArea());

38
49

:

s.printMe();

}
}

The above code will print:
1

I

2

78.75

ama

circle.

3

I am a

4

10.0

shape.

Observe that Circle overrode printMe( ), whereas Ambiguous just left this method as-is.

> Collection Framework
Java's collection framework is incredibly useful, and you will see it used throughout this book. Here are

some of the most useful items:
ArrayList: An ArrayList is a dynamically resizing array, which grows as you insert elements.
1

ArrayList<String> myArr = new ArrayList<String>();

2

myArr.add(“one”);

3

myArr.add(“two”)
;

&

System.out.println(myArr.get(@));

/ *prints

<one> */

Vector: A vector is very similar to an ArrayList, except that it is synchronized. its syntax is almost

identical as well.

166

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

bout Ne

Chapter 13 | Java
Vector<String>

myVect

= new Vector<String>();

myVect.add(“one”’)
;
myVect .add(“two”) ;
System.out .printin(myVect .get(@));

LinkedList: LinkedList is, of course, Java's built-in LinkedList class. Though it rarely comes up in
an interview, it’s useful to study because it demonstrates some of the syntax for an iterator.

f&

myLinkedList.addFirst
(“one”) ;
Iterator<String>

wi @® in

WH

LinkedList<String> myLinkedList = new LinkedList<String>();

myLinkedList.add(“two”)
;

while

iter = myLinkedList.iterator();

(iter.hasNext())

{

System.out.println(iter.next());

}

HashMap: The HashMap collection is widely used, both in interviews and in the real world. We've provided
a snippet of the syntax below.
1

HashMap<String,

2

map.put(“one”,

String> map = new HaShMap<String,

String>();

“uno”);

3

map.put(“two”, “dos”);

4

System.out.printin(map.
get (“one”) );

Before your interview, make sure you're very comfortable with the above syntax. You'll need it.

Interview Questions

Please note that because virtually all the solutions in this book are implemented with Java, we have selected
only asmall number of questions for this chapter. Moreover, most of these questions deal with the “trivia” of
the languages, since the rest of the book is filled with Java programming questions.
13.1.

Private Constructor: In terms of inheritance, what is the effect of keeping a constructor private?
Hints: #404

13.2.

Return from Finally: In Java, does the finally block get executed if we insert a return state-

ment inside the try block of a try- catch-finally?
Hints: #409

13.3

Final, etc.: What is the difference between final, finally, and finalize?
Hints: #412

13.4

Generics vs. Templates: Explain the difference between templates in C++ and generics in Java.
Hints: #416, #425

13.5

TreeMap, HashMap, LinkedHashMap: Explain the differences between TreeMap, HashMap, and
LinkedHashMap. Provide an example of when each one would be best.
Hints: #420, #424, #430, #454

Cracking heCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

167

Chapter 13 | Java
13.6

Object Reflection: Explain what object reflection is in Java and why it is useful.
Hints: #435

13.7

Lambda Expressions: There is a class Country that has methods getContinent() and
getPopulation(). Write a function int

getPopulation(List<Country>

countries,

String continent) that computes the total population of a given continent, given a list of all
countries and the name of
a continent.
Hints: #448, #461, #464

13.8

Lambda

Random:

Using

Lambda _

getRandomSubset(List<Integer>

expressions,

write

a

function

List<Integer>

list) that returns a random subset of arbitrary size. All

subsets (including the empty set) should be equally likely to be chosen.
Hints: #443, #450, #457

Additional Questions: Arrays and Strings (#1.3), Object-Oriented Design (#7.12), Threads and Locks (#15.3)
Hints start on page 676.

168

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

14
Databases

f you profess knowledge of databases, you might be asked some questions on it. We'll review some of the
key concepts and offer an overview of how to approach these problems. As you read these queries, don't
be surprised by minor variations in syntax. There are a variety of flavors of SQL, and you might have worked

with a slightly different one. The examples in this book have been tested against Microsoft SQL Server.

> SQL Syntax and Variations
implicit and explicit joins are shown below. These two statements are equivalent, and it’s a matter of
personal preference which one you choose. For consistency, we will stick to the explicit join.

4.

SELECT CourseName, TeacherName

4

2

FROM Courses INNER JOIN Teachers

2

FROM

Courses,

3

ON Courses.TeacherID = Teachers.TeacherID

3

WHERE

Courses.TeacherID =

4

SELECT CourseName, TeacherName
Teachers

Teachers.TeacherID

> Denormalized vs. Normalized Databases
Normalized databases are designed to minimize redundancy, while denormalized databases are designed
to optimize read time.
In a traditional normalized database with data like Courses and Teachers, Courses might contain a

column called Teacher
ID, which is a foreign key to Teacher. One benefit ofthis is that information about
the teacher (name, address, etc.) is only stored once in the database. The drawback is that many common
queries will require expensive joins.
Instead, we can denormalize the database by storing redundant data. For example, if we knew that we

would have to repeat this query often, we might store the teacher's name in the Courses table. Denormalization is Commonly used to create highly scalable systems.

> SQL Statements
Let's walk through a review of basic SQL syntax, using as an example the database that was mentioned

earlier. This database has the following simple structure (* indicates a primary key):
Courses:

CourseID*,

CourseName,

TeacherID

Teachers:

TeacherID*,

TeacherName

Students:

StudentID*,

StudentName

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

169

Chapter 14 | Databases
StudentCourses:

CourseID*,

StudentID*

Using the above table, implement the following queries.

Query 1: Student Enrollment

implement a query to get a list of all students and how many courses each student is enrolled in.
At first, we might try something like this:
Wo NR be
Pf

ON Students.StudentID = StudentCourses.StudentID

i

/* Incorrect Code */

SELECT Students .StudentName,

GROUP BY Students.StudentID

count(*)

FROM Students INNER JOIN StudentCourses

This has three problems:
1.

We have excluded students who are not enrolled in any courses, since StudentCourses only includes
enrolled students. We need to change thistoaLEFT JOIN.

Even if we changed it toaLEFT JOIN, the query is still not quite right. Doing count
(* ) would return
how many items there are in a given group of Student IDs. Students enrolled in zero courses would still
have one item in their group. We need to change this to count the number of Course IDs in each group:

count(StudentCourses.CourselID).
We've grouped by Students .StudentID, but there are still multiple StudentNames in each group.
How will the database know which StudentName to return? Sure, they may all have the same value,

but the database doesn’t understand that. We need to apply an aggregate function to this, such as

first(Students.StudentName).

Cow

oUF fe Ww MD bs

Fixing these issues gets us to this query:
/* Solution 1: Wrap with another query */
SELECT StudentName,
FROM

Students.StudentID,

Cnt

(

SELECT

Students.StudentID,

FROM Students

count(StudentCourses.CourseID) as

[Cnt]

LEFT JOIN StudentCourses

ON Students.StudentID = StudentCourses.StudentID
GROUP BY Students.StudentID

) T INNER JOIN Students on T.studentID = Students.StudentID

Looking at this code, one might ask why we don't just select the student name on line 3 to avoid having to

Pe WONG
he es

wrap lines 3 through 6 with another query. This (incorrect) solution is shown below.
/*

Incorrect Code */

SELECT StudentName,
FROM Students

Students.StudentID,

count(StudentCourses.CourseID)

as

[Cnt]

LEFT JOIN StudentCourses

ON Students.StudentID = StudentCourses.StudentiD
GROUP BY Students.StudentiID

The answer is that we can’t do that - at least not exactly as shown. We can only select values that are in an

aggregate function or in the GROUP BY clause.

ui Rd be

/* Solution 2: Add StudentName to GROUP BY clause.

PB

ON Students.StudentID = StudentCourses .StudentID

Ut

Alternatively, we could resolve the above issues with either of the following statements:

GROUP BY Students.StudentID, Students .StudentName

SELECT StudentName,
FROM Students

1 70

Students.StudentID,

LEFT JOIN StudentCourses

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

*/

count(StudentCourses.CourseID)

as

[Cnt]

CoA
Pe
la NY be

Chapter 14 | Databases

/* Solution 3:
SELECT

Wrap with aggregate function.

max(StudentName)

as

[StudentName],

count (StudentCourses.CourseID) as
FROM Students

*/

Students.StudentID,

[Count]

LEFT JOIN StudentCourses

ON Students.StudentID = StudentCourses .StudentID
GROUP

BY

Students.StudentiID

Query 2: Teacher Class Size

Implement a query to get a list of all teachers and how many students they each teach. If a teacher teaches
the same student in two courses, you should double count the student. Sort the list in descending order of
the number of students a teacher teaches.
We can construct this query step by step. First, let’s get a list of TeacherIDs and how many students are
associated with each Teacher
ID. This is very similar to the earlier query.
it

SELECT TeacherID,

2

FROM Courses

count(StudentCourses.CourseID) AS

[Number]

INNER JOIN StudentCourses

3.

ON Courses.CourseID = StudentCourses .CourseID

4

GROUP BY Courses.TeacherID

Note that this INNER

JOIN will not select teachers who aren't teaching classes. We'll handle that in the

below query when we join it with the list of all teachers.
1

SELECT TeacherName,

2

FROM Teachers

isnull(StudentSize.Number,

@)

LEFT JOIN

3

(SELECT TeacherID,

4

FROM Courses

count(StudentCourses.CourseID) AS

5

ON Courses.CourseID = StudentCourses.CourseID

[Number
]

INNER JOIN StudentCourses

6

GROUP BY Courses.TeacherID) StudentSize

?

ON Teachers.TeacherID = StudentSize.TeacherID

8S

ORDER BY StudentSize.Number DESC

Note how we handled the NULL values in the SELECT statement to convert the NULL values to zeros.

> Small Database Design
Additionally, you might be asked to design your own database. We'll walk you through an approach for
this. You might notice the similarities between this approach and the approach for object-oriented design.

Step 1: Handle Ambiguity
Database questions often have some ambiguity, intentionally or unintentionally. Before you proceed with
your design, you must understand exactly what you need to design.
Imagine you are asked to design a system to represent an apartment rental agency. You will need to know

whether this agency has multiple locations or just one. You should also discuss with your interviewer how
general you should be. For example, it would be extremely rare for a person to rent two apartments in the
same building. But does that mean you shouldn't be able to handle that? Maybe, maybe not. Some very rare
conditions might be best handled through a work around (like duplicating the person’s contact information
in the database).

Step 2: Define the Core Objects

Next, we should look at the core objects of our system. Each of these core objects typically translates into a
table. In this case, our core objects might be Property, Building, Apartment, Tenant and Manager.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com
| 6th Edition

171

Chapter 14 | Databases
Step 3: Analyze Relationships
Outlining the core objects should give us a good sense of what the tables should be. How do these tables
relate to each other? Are they many-to-many? One-to-many?

{f Buildings hasaone-to-manyrelationship withApartments (one Building has many Apartments),
then we might represent this as follows:

ApartmentID

int

BuildingID

int

ApartmentAddress | varchar(1@@)

BuildingName

varchar (100)

BuildingID

BuildingAddress | varchar(5@@)

int

Note that the Apartments table links back to Buildings with a BuildingID column.
If we want to allow for the possibility that one person rents more than one apartment, we might want to
implement a many-to-many relationship as follows:

TenantApartments —

Apartments _

TenantID

ApartmentID

int

ApartmentID | int

Tenants
int

TenantID

ApartmentAddress | varchar(506@)

TenantName

BuildingID

TenantAddress

int

int
varchar (100)
| varchar(5@@)

The TenantApartments table stores a relationship between Tenants and Apartments.

Step 4: Investigate Actions

Finally, we fill in the details. Walk through the common actions that will be taken and understand how to
store and retrieve the relevant data. We'll need to handle lease terms, moving out, rent payments, etc. Each

of these actions requires new tables and columns.

> Large Database Design
When designing a large, scalable database, joins (which are required in the above examples) are generally

very slow. Thus, you must denormalize your data. Think carefully about how data will be used—you'll probably need to duplicate the data in multiple tables.

Interview Questions

Questions 1 through 3 refer to the database schema at the end of the chapter. Each apartment can have
multiple tenants, and each tenant can have multiple apartments. Each apartment belongs to one building,
and each building belongs to one complex.
14.1.

Multiple Apartments: Write a SQL query to get a list of tenants who are renting more than one
apartment.

Hints: #408

172

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Chapter 14 | Databases
14.2

Open Requests: Write a SQL query to get a list of all buildings and the number of open requests
(Requests in which status equals ‘Open’),
Hints: #411

14.3

Close All Requests: Building #11 is undergoing a major renovation. !mplement a query to close all
requests from apartments in this building.
Hints: #431

14.4

Joins: What are the different types ofjoins? Please explain how they differ and why certain types
are better in certain situations.
Hints: #451

14.5

Denormalization: What is denormalization? Explain the pros and cons.
Hints: #444, #455

14.6

Entity-Relationship Diagram: Draw an entity-relationship diagram for a database with companies,
people, and professionals (people who work for companies).
Hints: #436

py 444
14.7

Design Grade Database: Imagine a simple database storing information for students’ grades.
Design what this database might look like and provide a SQL query to returna list of the honor roll
students (top 10%), sorted by their grade point average.
Hints: #428, #442

Additional Questions: Object-Oriented Design (#7.7), System Design and Scalability (#9.6)
Hints start on page 676.

BuildingID

int

UnitNumber | varchar (10)

ComplexID

int

BuildingID | int

BuildingName | varchar(10@)
Address

varchar(5@0)

Description | varchar(5@@)

TenantID

int

TenantID

AptID

int

TenantName

ComplexID

int

ComplexName | varchar(10@)

Request1ID

int

Status

varchar(106)

AptID

int

int

| varchar(10@)

CrackingTheCoding!nterview.com | 6th Edition

173

15
Threads and Locks

| na Microsoft, Google or Amazon interview, it’s not terribly common to be asked to implement an algorithm with threads (unless you’re working in a team for which this is a particularly important skill). It
is, however, relatively common for interviewers at any company to assess your general understanding of
threads, particularly your understanding of deadlocks.
This chapter will provide an introduction to this topic.

> Threads in Java
Every thread in Java is created and controlled by a unique object of the java. lang. Thread class. When

a standalone application is run, a user thread is automatically created to execute the main ( ) method. This
thread is called the main thread.
in Java, we can implement threads in one of two ways:
-

Byimplementing the java. lang. Runnab1e interface

+

Byextending the java. lang. Thread class

We will cover both of these below.

Implementing the Runnable Interface

The Runnable interface has the following very simple structure.

1

public interface Runnable {

2

void

run();

3
To create and use a thread using this interface, we do the following:
1. Create a class which implements the Runnab1e interface. An object of this class is a Runnable object.
2. Create an object of type Thread by passing a Runnab1e object as argument to the Thread constructor.

The Thread object now has a Runnab1e object that implements the run( ) method.
3. The start() method is invoked on the Thread object created in the previous step.

For example:
4

~=public

@

class

RunnableThreadExample implements

Runnable {

public int count = 0;

3

4

public void run() {

5

System.out.printin(“RunnableThread starting.”);

174

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Chapter 15 | Threads and Locks
6

try {

7

while

8

(count

< 5)

{

Thread .sleep(5@@) ;

5

count++3

18

}

11

} catch

ine

(InterruptedException exc)

{

System.out.println(“RunnableThread interrupted.”);

13

}

14

System.out.printin(“RunnableThread terminating.”);

5}

16

}

L?

12

public static void main(String[]

19

args)

{

RunnableThreadExample instance = new RunnableThreadExample();

23

Thread thread = new Thread(instance)
;

21

thread.start();

22

23

/* waits until above thread counts to 5

24

while

25

try

26

!= 5)

(slowly)

*/

{

{

Thread.sleep(
250) ;

27

}

28

catch

(InterruptedException exc)

{

exc. printStackTrace();

28

}

36

31

(instance.count

}

+}

In the above code, observe that all we really needed to do is have our class implement the run() method
(line 4). Another method can then pass an instance of the class to new

Thread(obj) (lines 19 - 20) and

call start() onthe thread (line 21).

Extending the Thread Class

Altematively, we can create a thread by extending the Thread class. This will almost always mean that

we override the run() method, and the subclass may also call the thread constructor explicitly in its
constructor.

The below code provides an example of this.
1

public class

2

ThreadExample extends Thread {

int count = Q;

3

4

public void

run()

{

5

System.out.printin(“Thread

6

try {

vi

starting.”);

while (count < 5) {

8

Thread .sleep(5@Q) ;

9

System.out.println(“In Thread,

13

COUNt++
3

ut

count is ” + count);

}

12

}

iB

catch

(InterruptedException exc)

{

System.out.println(“Thread interrupted.”);

14

}

Ie,

System.out.printin(“Thread terminating.”);

16
17

}
3}

18

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

175

Chapter 15 | Threads and Locks
18

public class ExampleB {

28

public static void main(String args[])

{

21

ThreadExample instance = new ThreadExample()
;

22

instance.start();

23

24

while

26

!= 5)

{

Thread. sleep(25@) ;

2?

}

28

catch

(InterruptedException

exc)

{

exc. printStackTrace();

29

}

32

}

}

Srl
32

(instance.count

try {

25

}

This code is very similar to the first approach. The difference is that since we are extending the Thread

class, rather
than just implementing an interface, we can call Start() onthe instance of the class itself.

Extending the Thread Class vs. Implementing the Runnable Interface
When creating threads, there are two reasons why implementing the Runnable interface may be prefer-

able to extending the Thread class:
«

Java does not support multiple inheritance. Therefore, extending the Thread class means that the

subclass cannot extend any other class. A class implementing the Runnable interface will be able to
extend another class.

«

Aclass might only be interested in being runnable, and therefore, inheriting the full overhead of the
Thread class would be excessive.

> Synchronization and Locks
Threads within a given process share the same memory space, which is both a positive and a negative. It

enables threads to share data, which can be valuable. However, it also creates the opportunity for issues
when two threads modify a resource at the same time. Java provides synchronization in order to control
access to shared resources.
The keyword synchronized and the lock form the basis for implementing synchronized execution of
code.

Synchronized Methods
Most commonly, we restrict access to shared resources through the use of the synchronized keyword. It
can be applied to methods and code blocks, and restricts multiple threads from executing the code simultaneously on the same object.
To clarify the last point, consider the following code:
1

public

class

MyClass

extends

2

private String name;

3

private MyObject myObj;

Thread

{

4

5

public MyClass(MyObject obj,

8

String n)

name = n;

?

myObj = obj;

}

3

176

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

{

Chapter 15 | Threads and Locks

g

16

public void run()

11

{

myObj .foo(name) ;

12

}

43}
14

15

public class MyObject {

16

public synchronized void foo(String name)

17

{

try {

18

System.out.println(“Thread ” + name + “.foo():

19

Thread. sleep( 3886) ;

28

System.out.println(“Thread ” + name + “.foo():

21

ending’);

} catch (InterruptedException exc) {

22

System.out.printin(“Thread ” + name + “:

23

interrupted.”);

}

pa
25

starting”)
;

}
}

Can two instances of MyClass call Foo at the same time? It depends. If they have the same instance of
/* Difference references -

both threads

can

call MyObject.foo()

*/

Bw

MyObject obj2 = new MyObject();

HM

MyObject obj1 = new MyObject();

MyClass thread2 = new MyClass(obj2, “2”);

iw Ow

MP

MyObject, then no. But, ifthey hold different references, then the answer is yes.

thread2.start()

MyClass thread1 = new MyClass(obji,

“1”);

thread1.start();

/* Same reference to obj. Only one will be allowed to call foo,

16

* and the other will be forced to wait.

11

MyObject obj = new MyObject();

12

MyClass thread1 = new MyClass(obj,

“1”);

13

MyClass thread2 = new MyClass(obj,

“2”);

14

thread1.start()

15

thread2.start()

*/

Static methods synchronize on the class lock. The two threads above could not simultaneously execute

synchronized static methods on the same class, even if one is calling Foo and the other is calling bar.
1

public

3

class MyClass

extends Thread

{

public void run() {

4

if (name.equals(“1”)) MyObject .foo(name) ;

5

else if (name.equals(“2”)) MyObject.bar(name)
;

6
7

}

3

&

9

public class MyObject {

16

public static synchronized void foo(String name)

{

12

public static synchronized void bar(String name)

{ /* same as foo */

12

/* same as before */

}

}

}

if you run this code, you will see the following printed:
Thread 1.foo():

starting

Thread

ending

1.fo0():

Thread 2.bar():

starting

Thread 2.bar():

ending

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com| 6th Edition

177

Chapter 15 | Threads and Locks
Synchronized Blocks
Similarly, a block of code can be synchronized. This operates very similarly to synchronizing a method.
public class MyClass extends Thread

1

{

2

public void run() {

3

myObj.foo(name)
;

4

5

}

ii

6

public class MyObject {

7

public void foo(String name)

8

9

synchronized(this)

10

{

{

Site

11

}

12

}

13

}

Like synchronizing a method, only one thread per instance of MyObject can execute the code within the
synchronized block. That means that, if thread1 and thread2 have the same instance of MyObject,
only one will be allowed to execute the code block at a time.

Locks

For more granular control, we can utilize a lock. A lock (or monitor) is used to synchronize access to a

shared resource by associating the resource with the lock. A thread gets access to a shared resource by first
acquiring the lock associated with the resource. At any given time, at most one thread can hold the lock
and, therefore, only one thread can access the shared resource.
A common use case for locks is when a resource is accessed from multiple places, but should be only
accessed by one thread at
a time. This case is demonstrated in the code below.
4.

public class LockedATM {

2

private Lock lock;

3

private

int balance = 100;

4

5

public LockedATM()

6

{

lock = new ReentrantLock();

7

3

8

Ss)

public int withdraw(int value) {

10

lock. lock();

11

int temp = balance;

12

try {

13

Thread.sleep(10@)
;

14

temp = temp

15

Thread.sleep(108)
;

16

value;

balance = temp;

17

} catch

18

lock. unlock();

19
20

-

(InterruptedException e) {

return temp;
}

al
22

23

public

int deposit(int value)

24

int temp

25

try {

26

178

{

lock. lock();
= balance;

Thread.sleep(10@)
;

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

}

Chapter 15 | Threads and Locks
27

temp = temp + value;

28

Thread .sileep( 308) ;

29

balance = temp;

3e

} catch (InterruptedException e) {

34

;
lock. unlock()

32

it

return temp;

33

}

34

}

Of course, we've added code to intentionally slow down the execution of withdraw and deposit, as it
helps to illustrate the potential problems that can occur. You may not write code exactly like this, but the

situation it mirrors is very, very real. Using a lock will help protect a shared resource from being modified in
unexpected ways.

> Deadlocks and Deadlock Prevention
A deadlock is a situation where a thread is waiting for an object lock that another thread holds, and this
second thread is waiting for an object lock that the first thread holds (or an equivalent situation with several
threads). Since each thread is waiting for the other thread to relinquish a lock, they both remain waiting
forever. The threads are said to be deadlocked.
in order for a deadlock to occur, you must have all four of the following conditions met:

1. Mutual Exclusion: Only one process can access a resource at a given time. (Or, more accurately, there is
limited access to a resource. A deadlock could also occur if a resource has limited quantity.)
2. Hold and Wait: Processes already holding a resource can request additional resources, without relinquishing their current resources.

3. No Preemption: One process cannot forcibly remove another process’ resource.
4. Circular Wait: Two or more processes form a circular chain where each process is waiting on another
resource in the chain.

Deadlock prevention entails removing any of the above conditions, but it gets tricky because many of these
conditions are difficult to satisfy. For instance, removing #1 is difficult because many resources can only
be used by one process at a time (e.g,, printers). Most deadlock prevention algorithms focus on avoiding
condition #4: circular wait.

Interview Questions
15.1.

Thread vs. Process: What’s the difference between a thread and a process?
Hints: #405

15.2

Context Switch: How would you measure the time spent in a context switch?
Hints: #403, #407, #415, #441

__

vow

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

OG AAP

179

Chapter 15 | Threads and Locks
15.3

Dining Philosophers: In the famous dining philosophers problem, a bunch of philosophers are
sitting around a circular table with one chopstick between each of them. A philosopher needs
both chopsticks to eat, and always picks up the left chopstick before the right one. A deadlock
could potentially occur if all the philosophers reached for the left chopstick at the same time. Using
threads and locks, implement a simulation of the dining philosophers problem that prevents deadlocks.
Hints: #419, #437

15.4

Deadlock-Free Class: Design a class which provides a lock only if there are no possible deadlocks.
Hints: #422, #434

15.5

Call In Order: Suppose we have the following code:
public class

Foo {

public Foo()

...

}

public void first()

{

{

public void second()
public void third()

...
{

{

}

...
...

}
}

}
The same instance of Foo will be passed to three different threads. ThreadA will call first,
threacB will call second, and threadC will call third. Design a mechanism to ensure that
first is called before second and second is called before third.
Hints: #417, #433, #446

15.6

Synchronized Methods: You are given a class with synchronized method A and a normal method

B. If you have two threads in one instance of a program, can they both execute A at the same time?
Can they execute A and B at the same time?
Hints: #429

15.7

FizzBuzz: In the classic problem FizzBuzz, you are told to print the numbers from 1 to n. However,
when the number is divisible by 3, print “Fizz”. When it is divisible by 5, print “Buzz”. When it is divisible by 3 and 5, print “FizzBuzz” In this problem, you are asked to do this in a multithreaded way.

Implement a multithreaded version of FizzBuzz with four threads. One thread checks for divisibility
of3 and prints “Fizz”. Another thread is responsible for divisibility of5 and prints“Buzz” A third thread

is responsible for divisibility of 3 and 5 and prints “FizzBuzz”. A fourth thread does the numbers.
Hints: #414, #439, #447, #458

Hints start on page 676.

180

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

16
Moderate

16.1

Number Swapper: Write a function to swap a number in place (that is, without temporary variables).
Hints: #492, #716, #737

16.2

Word Frequencies: Design a method to find the frequency of occurrences of any given word ina
book. What if we were running this algorithm multiple times?
Hints: #489, #536

16.3

Intersection: Given two straight line segments (represented as a start point and an end point),
compute the point of intersection, if any.
Hints: #465, #472, #497, #517, #527

16.4

Tic Tac Win: Design an algorithm to figure out if someone has won a gameof tic-tac-toe.
Hints: #710, #732

16.5

Factorial Zeros: Write an algorithm which computes the number of trailing zeros in n factorial.
Hints: #585, #711, #729, #733, #745

16.6

Smallest Difference: Given two arrays of integers, compute the pair of values (one value in each
array) with the smallest (non-negative) difference. Return the difference.
EXAMPLE

Input: {1, 3, 15, 11, 2}, {23, 127, 235, 19, 8}

Output: 3. That is, the pair (11, 8).
Hints: #632, #670, #679
Bese
aN

16.7

oe

nd ere

A

Bi

rae

Number Max: Write a method that finds the maximum of two numbers. You should not use if-else
or any other comparison operator.
Hints: #473, #513, #707, #728

CrackingTheCoding!nterview.com | 6th Edition

181

Chapter
16 | Moderate
16.8

English Int: Given any integer, print an English phrase that describes the integer (e.g., “One Thousand, Two Hundred Thirty Four’).
Hints: #502, #588, #688

16.9

Operations: Write methods to implement the multiply, subtract, and divide operations for integers.
The results of all of these are integers. Use only the add operator.
Hints: #572, #600, #613, #648

16.10

Living People: Given a list of people with their birth and death years, implement a method to
compute the year with the most number of people alive. You may assume that all people were born
between 1900 and 2000 (inclusive). Ifa person was alive during any portion ofthat year, they should

be included in that year’s count. For example, Person (birth = 1908, death = 1909) is included inthe
counts for both 1908 and 1909.
Hints: #476, #490, #507, #514, #523, #532, #541, #549, #576

16.11

Diving Board: You are building a diving board by placing a bunch of planks of wood end-to-end.

There are two types of planks, one of length shorter and one of length longer.
You must use
exactly K planks of wood. Write a method to generate all possible lengths for the diving board.
Hints: #690, #700, #715, #722, #740, #747

16.12 XML Encoding: Since XML is very verbose, you are given a way of encoding it where each tag gets

mapped to a pre-defined integer value. The language/grammar is as follows:
Element

--> Tag Attributes

Attribute

--> Tag Value

END Children

END

-->

@

Tag

-->

some predefined mapping to

Value

-->

string value

END

int

For example, the following XML might be converted into the compressed string below (assuming a

mapping of family
->

->

1,

person

->2,

firstName

->

3,

lastName

-> 4,

state

5).

<family lastName="McDowell”

state="CA">

<person firstName="Gayle">Some Message</person>

</family>
Becomes:
1 4 McDowell 5

CA © 2

3 Gayle © Some Message © 0

Write code to print the encoded version of an XML element (passed in Element and Attribute
objects).
Hints: #466

16.13

Bisect Squares: Given two squares on a two-dimensional plane, find a line that would cut these two
squares in half. Assume that the top and the bottom sides of the square run parallel to the x-axis.
Hints: #468, #479, #528, #560

182

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Chapter 16 | Moderate
16.14

Best Line: Given a two-dimensional graph with points on it, find a line which passes the most

number of points.

Hints: #491, #520, #529, #563

16.15

Master Mind: The Game of Master Mind is played as follows:

The computer has four slots, and each slot will contain a ball that is red (R), yellow (Y), green (G) or

blue (B). For example, the computer might have RGGB (Slot #1 is red, Slots #2 and #3 are green, Slot
#4 is blue).
You, the user, are trying to guess the solution.
You might, for example, guess YRGB.

When you guess the correct color for the correct slot, you get a “hit.” lf you guess a color that exists
but is in the wrong slot, you get a “pseudo-hit.” Note that a slot that is a hit can never count as a
pseudo-hit.
For example, if the actual solution is RGBY and you guess GGRR, you have one hit and one pseudo-hit.

Write a method that, given a guess and a solution, returns the number of hits and pseudo-hits.
Hints: #639, #730

16.16

Sub Sort: Given an array of integers, write a method to find indices m and n such that if you sorted

elements m through n, the entire array would be sorted. Minimize n

-

m (that is, find the smallest

such sequence).
EXAMPLE

Input:1,

2,

4,

Output: (3,

9)

7,

10,

11,

7,

12,

6,

7,

16,

18,

19

Hints: #482, #553, #667, #708, #735, #746

16.17

Contiguous Sequence: You are given an array of integers (both positive and negative). Find the
contiguous sequence with the largest sum. Return the sum.
EXAMPLE

Input:2,

-8,

3,

-2,

4,

Output:5

(i.e.,

{3,

-2,

-10

4})

Hints: #531, #551, #567, #594, #614
og 496
16.18

Pattern Matching: You are given two strings, pattern and value. The pattern string consists of
just the letters aand b, describing a pattern within a string. For example, the string catcatgocatgo
matches the pattern aabab (where Cat is a and go is b). It also matches patterns like a, ab, and b.
Write a method to determine if value matches pattern.
Hints: #631, #643, #653, #663, #685, #718, #727

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

183

Chapter 16 | Moderate
16.19

Pond Sizes: You have an integer matrix representing a plot of land, where the value at that location represents the height above sea level. A value of zero indicates water. A pond is a region of
water connected vertically, horizontally, or diagonally. The size of the pond is the total number of
connected water cells. Write a method to compute the sizes of all ponds in the matrix.
EXAMPLE
Input:
@2190
@101
11061
0101

Output: 2, 4, 1 (in any order)
Hints: #674, #687, #706, #723

16.20 T9: On old cell phones, users typed on a numeric keypad and the phone would providea

list of

words that matched these numbers. Each digit mapped to a set of 0 - 4 letters. Implement an algorithm to return a list of matching words, given a sequence of digits. You are provided a list of valid

words (provided in whatever data structure you'd like). The mapping is shown in the diagram below:
1

2

3

abc

def

4

5

6

ghi

jkl

mno

7

8

9

pars

tuv

Wxyz

0

EXAMPLE

Input:

8733

Output:

tree,

used

Hints: #471, #487, #654, #703, #726, #744

16.21

Sum Swap: Given two arrays of integers, find a pair of values (one value from each array) that you
can swap to give the two arrays the same sum.
EXAMPLE

Input: {4, 1, 2, 1, 1, 2} and {3, 6, 3, 3}
Output: {1, 3}
Hints: #545, #557, #564, #571,#583, #592, #602, #606, #635

184

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Chapter
16 | Moderate
16.22

Langton’s Ant: An ant is sitting on an infinite grid of white and black squares. It initially faces right.
At each step, it does the following:

(1) Ata white square, flip the color of the square, turn 90 degrees right (clockwise), and move forward
one unit.

(2) At a black square, flip the color of the square, turn 90 degrees left (counter-clockwise), and move
forward one unit.
Write a program to simulate the first K moves that the ant makes and print the final board as a grid.
Note that you are not provided with the data structure to represent the grid. This is something you
must design yourself. The only input to your method is K. You should print the final grid and return

nothing. The method signature might be something like void printKMoves(int kK).
Hints: #474, #481, #533, #540, #559, #570, #599, #616, #627

16.23

Rand7 from Rand5: Implement a method rand7() given randS( ). That is, given a method that
generates a random number between 0 and 4 (inclusive), write a method that generates a random
number between 0 and 6 (inclusive).
Hints: #505, #574, #637, #668, #697, #720

16.24

Pairs with Sum: Design an algorithm to find all pairs of integers within an array which sum to a

specified value.
Hints: #548, #597, #644, #673

16.25

LRU Cache: Design and build a “least recently used” cache, which evicts the least recently used
item. The cache should map from keys to values (allowing you to insert and retrieve a value associ-

ated with a particular key) and be initialized with a max size. When it is full, it should evict the least
recently used item.
Hints: #524, #630, #694

16.26

Calculator: Given an arithmetic equation consisting of positive integers, +, -, * and / (no parentheses), compute the result.
EXAMPLE

Input:

2*34+5/6*3415

Output:

23.5

Hints: #521, #624, #665, #698

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com| 6th Edition

185

17
Hard

17.1.

Add Without Plus: Write a function that adds two numbers. You should not use + or any arithmetic
operators.

Hints: #467, #544, #601, #628, #642, #664, #692, #712, #724

17.2.

Shuffle: Write a method to shuffle a deck of cards. It must be a perfect shuffle—in other words, each
of the 52! permutations of the deck has to be equally likely. Assume that you are given a random
number generator which is perfect.
Hints: #483, #579, #634

17.3.

Random Set: Write a method to randomly generate a set of m integers from an array of size n. Each
element must have equal probability of being chosen.
Hints: #494, #596

17.4

Missing Number: An array A contains all the integers from 0 to n, except for one number which

is missing. In this problem, we cannot access an entire integer in A with a single operation. The
elements of A are represented in binary, and the only operation we can use to access them is “fetch

the jth bit of A[ i], which takes constant time. Write code to find the missing integer. Can you do
it inO(n) time?
Hints: #610, #659, #683

17.5

Letters and Numbers: Given an array filled with letters and numbers, find the longest subarray with

an equal number of letters and numbers.
Hints: #485, #515, #619, #671, #713

17.6

Count of 2s: Write a method to count the number of 2s that appear in all the numbers between 0
and n (inclusive).
EXAMPLE
Input: 25

Output: 9 (2, 12, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24 and 25. Note that 22 counts for two 2s.)
Hints: #573, #612, #641

186

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Chapter 17 | Hard
17.7

Baby Names: Each year, the government releases a list of the 10000 most common baby names

and their frequencies (the number of babies with that name). The only problem with this is that
some names have multiple spellings. For example, John’ and “Jon” are essentially the same name

but would be listed separately in the list. Given two lists, one of names/frequencies and the other

of pairs of equivalent names, write an algorithm to print a new list of the true frequency of each
name. Note that if John and Jon are synonyms, and Jon and Johnny are synonyms, then John and

Johnny are synonyms. (It is both transitive and symmetric.) In the final list, any name can be used
as the “real” name.
EXAMPLE

Input:

Names: John (15), Jon (12), Chris (13), Kris (4), Christopher (19)
Synonyms: (Jon, John), John, Johnny), (Chris, Kris), (Chris, Christopher)
Output: John (27), Kris (36)
Hints: #478, #493, #512, #537, #586, #605, #655, #675, #704

17.8

Circus Tower: A circus is designing a tower routine consisting of people standing atop one another’s shoulders. For practical and aesthetic reasons, each person must be both shorter and lighter
than the person below him or her. Given the heights and weights of each person in the circus, write
a method to compute the largest possible number of people in such a tower.
EXAMPLE

Input (ht, wt): (65,

100)

(70,

150)

(56,

98)

(75,

198)

(60,

95)

(68,

110)

Output: The longest tower is length 6 and includes from top to bottom:

(56,

90)

(60,95)

(65,100)

(68,110)

(70,150)

(75,190)

Hints: #638, #657, #666, #682, #699
pg S46

17.9

Kth Multiple: Design an algorithm to find the kth number such that the only prime factors are 3, 5,
and 7. Note that 3, 5, and 7 do not have to be factors, but it should not have any other prime factors.

For example, the first several multiples would be (in order) 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 15, 21.
Hints: #488, #508, #550, #591, #622, #660, #686

A SAE
17.10

Majority Element: A majority element is an element that makes up more than half of the items in

an array. Given a positive integers array, find the majority element. If there is no majority element,

return -1. Do this inO(N) time and O(1) space.
EXAMPLE

Input:

125959555

Output:

5

Hints: #522, #566, #604, #620, #650
eo 554

17.11

Word Distance: You have a large text file containing words. Given any two words, find the shortest
distance (in terms of number of words) between them in the file. If the operation will be repeated
many times for the same file (but different pairs of words), can you optimize your solution?
Hints: #486, #501, #538, #558, #633

Cracking TheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

187

Chapter 17 | Hard
17.12

BiNode: Consider a simple data structure called BiNode, which has pointers to two other nodes.
public

class

BiNode

{

public BiNode node1, node2;
public

int

data;

}
The data structure BiNode could be used to represent both a binary tree (where node11 is the left
node and node2 is the right node) or a doubly linked list (where node
11 is the previous node and
node2 is the next node). |!mplement a method to convert a binary search tree (implemented with

BiNode) into a doubly linked list. The values should be kept in order and the operation should be
performed in place (that is, on the original data structure).
Hints: #509, #608, #646, #680, #701, #719

17.13

Re-Space: Oh, no! You have accidentally removed all spaces, punctuation, and capitalization in a

lengthy document. A sentence like”I

reset

the

computer.

It

still

didn’t

boot!”

became“iresetthecomputeritstilldidntboot” You'll deal with the punctuation and capitalization later; right now you need to re-insert the spaces. Most of the words are in a dictionary but
a few are not. Given a dictionary (a list of strings) and the document (a string), design an algorithm
to unconcatenate the document in a way that minimizes the number of unrecognized characters.
EXAMPLE:

Input:

jesslookedjustliketimherbrother

Output: jess looked just like tim her brother (7 unrecognized characters)
Hints: #496, #623, #656, #677, #739, #749

17.14 Smallest K: Design an algorithm to find the smallest K numbers in an array.
Hints: #470, #530, #552, #593, #625, #647, #661, #678

17.15

Longest Word: Givena list of words, write a program to find the longest word made of other words

in the list.

EXAMPLE

Input:cat,

banana,

dog,

nana,

walk,

walker,

dogwalker

Output: dogwalker
Hints: #475, #499, #543, #589

17.16 The Masseuse: A popular masseuse receives a sequence of back-to-back appointment requests
and is debating which ones to accept. She needs a 15-minute break between appointments and

therefore she cannot accept any adjacent requests. Given a sequence of back-to-back appointment requests (all multiples of

15 minutes, none overlap, and none can be moved), find the optimal

(highest total booked minutes) set the masseuse can honor. Return the number of minutes.
EXAMPLE

Input:

{30,

15,

60,

Output:180 minutes

75, 45,
({30,

15,

60, 45,

15,

45}

45}).

Hints: #495, #504, #516, #526, #542, #554, #562, #568, #578, #587, #607

188

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Chapter
17 | Hard
17.17

Multi Search: Given a string b and an array of smaller strings T, design a method to search b for
each small string in T.
Hints: #480, #582, #617, #743

17.18 Shortest Supersequence: You are given two arrays, one shorter (with all distinct elements) and one

longer. Find the shortest subarray in the longer array that contains all the elements in the shorter
array. The items can appear in any order.
EXAMPLE

Input: {1,
Output: [7,

5, 9}

|

{7,

5,

9,

@,

2,

1,

3, 5, 7, 9,

1,

1,

5,

8,

8, 9, 7}

10] (the underlined portion above)

Hints: #645, #652, #669, #681, #691, #725, #731, #741

17.19

Missing Two: You are given an array with all the numbers from 1 to N appearing exactly once,

except for one number that is missing. How can you find the missing number in O(N) time and

0(1) space? What if there were two numbers missing?
Hints: #503, #590, #609, #626, #649, #672, #689, #696, #702, #717

(tee

Lor oe ee

BSA

17.20 Continuous Median: Numbers are randomly generated and passed to a method. Write a program

to find and maintain the median value as new values are generated.
Hints: #519, #546, #575, #709

17.21

Volume of Histogram: Imagine a histogram (bar graph). Design an algorithm to compute the
volume of water it could hold if someone poured water across the top. You can assume that each
histogram bar has width 1.
EXAMPLE (Black bars are the histogram. Gray is water.)

Input: {@,

0, 4,

0,

8,

6,

8,

0,

3,

0,

5,

0,

1,

0,

8,

O}

00400600305010080
Output: 26
Hints: #629, #640, #651, #658, #662, #676, #693, #734, #742

17.22

Word Transformer: Given two words of equal length that are in a dictionary, write a method to
transform one word into another word by changing only one letter at a time. The new word you get
in each step must be in the dictionary.
EXAMPLE

Input: DAMP, LIKE
Output: DAMP -> LAMP -> LIMP -> LIME -> LIKE
Hints: #506, #535, #556, #580, #598, #618, #738

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

189

Chapter
17 | Hard
17.23

Max Black Square: Imagine you have a square matrix, where each cell (pixel) is either black or white
Design an algorithm to find the maximum subsquare such that all four borders are filled with black
pixels.
Hints: #684, #695, #705, #714, #721, #736

17.24

Max Submatrix: Given an NXN matrix of positive and negative integers, write code to find the
submatrix with the largest possible sum.
Hints: #469, #511, #525, #539, #565, #581, #595, #615, #621

17.25

Word Rectangle: Given a list of millions of words, design an algorithm to create the largest possible
rectangle of letters such that every row forms a word (reading left to right) and every column forms

a word (reading top to bottom). The words need not be chosen consecutively from the list, but all
rows must be the same length and all columns must be the same height.
Hints: #477, #500, #748

17.26

Sparse Similarity: The similarity of two documents (each with distinct words) is defined to be the
size of the intersection divided by the size of the union. For example, if the documents consist of

integers, the similarity of {1,

5,

3}and{1, 7,

2,

3}is@.4, because the intersection has size

2 and the union has size 5.
We have a long list of documents (with distinct values and each with an associated ID) where the

similarity is believed to be “sparse.’ That

is, any two arbitrarily selected documents are very likely to

have similarity 0. Design an algorithm that returns a list of pairs of document IDs and the associated
similarity.
Print only the pairs with similarity greater than 0. Empty documents should not be printed at all. For

simplicity, you may assume each document is represented as an array of distinct integers.
EXAMPLE

Input:

13:

{14,

15,

16:

{32,

1,

19:

{15,

24:

{7,

100,
9,

29,

2,

3,

6,

9,

3}

5}

8,

7}

10}

Output:
ID1,
13,

ID2

:

SIMILARITY

19

:@.1

13,

16

:

@.25

19,

24

>

@.14285714285714285

Hints: #484, #498, #510, #518, #534, #547, #555, #561, #569, #577, #584, #603, #611, #636

190

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions

X
Join us at www.CrackingTheCodingInterview.com

solutions in other programming languages, discuss

to download the complete solutions, contribute

problems from this book with other readers,

report issues, view this book’s errata, and seek additio

nal advice.

or view

ask questions,

Solutions to Arrays and Strings

1.1

Is Unique: Implement an algorithm to determine if a string has all unique characters. What if you
cannot use additional data structures?

pg 90
SOLUTION

You should first ask your interviewer if the string is an ASCII string or a Unicode string. Asking this question
will show an eye for detail and a solid foundation in computer science. We'll assume for simplicity the char-

acter set is ASCII. If this assumption is not valid, we would need to increase the storage size.
One solution is to create an array of boolean values, where the flag at index i indicates whether character
i in the alphabet is contained in the string. The second time you see this character you can immediately
return false.
We can also immediately return false if the string length exceeds the number of unique characters in the

alphabet. After all, you can’t form a string of 280 unique characters out of a 128-character alphabet.

It's also okay to assume 256 characters. This would be the case in extended ASCII. You should

clarify your assumptions with your interviewer.

The code below implements this algorithm.
i

boolean

isUniqueChars(String str)

2

if

>

(str.length()

128)

{

return false;

3

4

boolean[]

5

for (int i = 0;

char_set

= new boolean[128];

i < str.length();

6

int val = str.charAt(i);

?

if

8

(char_set[val])

{

i++)

{

// Already found this

char

in string

return false;

9

}

16

char_set[val]

11
12

13

= true;

}
return true;

}

The time complexity for this code is O(n), where n is the length ofthe string. The space complexity isO(1).
(You could also argue the time complexity is 0(

1), since the for loop will never iterate through more than

128 characters.) If you didn’t want to assume the character set is fixed, you could express the complexity as

O(c) space andO(min(c,

192

n)) orO(c)

time, where c is the size of the character set.

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 1 | Arrays and Strings
We can reduce our space usage by a factor ofeight by using a bit vector. We will assume, in the below code,
that the string only uses the lowercase letters a through Z. This will allow us to use just a single int.
i

boolean isUniqueChars(String str)

2

int checker = Q;

3

for (int i = @;

i < str.length();

4

int val = str.charAt(i)

5

if

6

{

-

i++) {

‘a’;

((checker & (1 << val))

> @) {

return false;

7

}

8

checker

9

|= (1 << val);

}

18

11

return true;

}

if we can't use additional data structures, we can do the following:

1. Compare every character of the string to every other character of the string. This will take O(n) time
and 0(1) space.
2. If we are allowed to modify the input string, we could sort the string inO(n

log(n)) time and then

linearly check the string for neighboring characters that are identical. Careful, though: many sorting
algorithms take up extra space.

These solutions are not as optimal in some respects, but might be better depending on the constraints of
the problem.

1.2.

Check Permutation: Given two strings, write a method to decide if one is a permutation of the
other.

pg 90
SOLUTION

Like in many questions, we should confirm some details with our interviewer. We should understandif the
permutation comparison is case sensitive. That is: is God a permutation of dog? Additionally, we should
ask if whitespace is significant. We will assume for this problem that the comparison is case sensitive and

whitespace is significant. So, “god

”” is different from “dog”.

Observe first that strings of different lengths cannot be permutations of each other. There are two easy
ways to solve this problem, both of which use this optimization.

Solution #1: Sort the strings.
if two strings are permutations, then we know they have the same characters, but in different orders. Therefore, sorting the strings will put the characters from two permutations in the same order. We just need to
String sort(String s)
char[]

5%)

Re

{

content = s.toCharArray();

java.util .Arrays.sort (content) ;
return new String(content)
;

}
boolean permutation(String s,
if (s.length()

OW

OO

OH

UB

WN RF

compare the sorted versions of the strings.

String t)

!= t.length())

{

{

return false;

}

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

193

Solutions to Chapter 1 | Arrays and Strings
Va

return sort(s).equals(sort(t));

oh

Though this algorithm is not as optimal in some senses, it may be preferable in one sense: It’s clean, simple
and easy to understand. In a practical sense, this may very well be a superior way to implement the problem.

However, if efficiency is very important, we can implement it a different way.

Solution #2: Check if the two strings have identical character counts.
We can also use the definition of a permutation—two words with the same character counts—to implement this algorithm. We simply iterate through this code, counting how many times each character appears.
Then, afterwards, we compare the two arrays.
1

boolean permutation(String s,

2

if (s.length()

3

String t)

!= t.length())

{

{

return false;

4}
5

6

int[] letters = new int[128]; // Assumption

7

8

char[]

9

for (char c

s_array = s.toCharArray();
:

s_array) { // count number of each char in s.

letters[c]++;

10
11

}

ls

13

for (int i = 0;

i < t.length();

14

int c = (int) t.charAt(i);

15

letters[c]--;

16

if (letters[c]

17

< @)

i++)

{

{

return false;

18

}

19

}

2a

21

22

return

true;

}

Note the assumption on line 6. In your interview, you should always check with your interviewer about the
size of the character set. We assumed that the character set was ASCII.

1.3

URLify: Write a method to replace all spaces in a string with 420” You may assume that the string
has sufficient space at the end to hold the additional characters, and that you are given the “true”
length of the string. (Note: if implementing in Java, please use a character array so that you can
perform this operation in place.)
EXAMPLE

Input:

“Mr John Smith

75

Output:

“Mr%Z2eJohn%2eSmith”

is

pg 90
SOLUTION

A common approach in string Manipulation problems is to edit the string starting from the end and working
backwards. This is useful because we have an extra buffer at the end, which allows us to change characters
without worrying about what we're overwriting.

194

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 1 | Arrays and Strings
We will use this approach in this problem.
The algorithm employs a two-scan approach. In the first scan, we

count the number of spaces. By tripling this number, we can compute how many extra characters we will
have in the final string. In the second pass, which is done in reverse order, we actually edit the string. When
we see a space, we replace it with 429. If there is no space, then we copy the original character.

The code below implements this algorithm.
4

void replaceSpaces(char{] str,

int trueLength)

2

int spaceCount = 0, index, i = Q;

3

for (i = 0;

i < trueLength;

°

i++) {

") {

if (str[i] =="

4

{

spaceCount++;

6
7

}
}

g

index = trueLength + spaceCount * 2;

9

if (trueLength < str.length) str[trueLength] = ‘\®°; // End array

18

for (i = trueLength - 1;

i >= 6;

12
iv

elt
GP o(aterp| Gl) =="
str[index - 1] = '@';
str[index - 2] = '2';

14

str[index - 3] = ‘4';

it

15

index = index

{

3;

} else {

16
my

str[index

18

index--;

1s

-

1]

= str[i];

}

28

21

-

i--)

}

}

We have implemented this problem using character arrays, because Java strings are immutable. If we used
strings directly, the function would have to return a new copyof the string, but it would allow us to implement this in just one pass.

1.4

Palindrome Permutation: Given a string, write a function to check if it is a permutation of
a palindrome. A palindrome is a word or phrase that is the same forwards and backwards. A
permutation is a rearrangement of letters. The palindrome does not need to be limited to just
dictionary words.
EXAMPLE

Input:

Tact Coa

Output:

True (permutations: “taco

cat” ”“atco cta’ etc.)

pg 91
SOLUTION

This is a question where it helps to figure out what it means for a string to be a permutation of a palindrome.
This is like asking what the “defining features” of such a string would be.
A palindrome is a string that is the same forwards and backwards. Therefore, to decide if a string is a permutation ofa palindrome, we need to know if it can be written such that it's the same forwards and backwards.
What does it take to be able to write a set of characters the same way forwards and backwards? We need to
have an even number of almost all characters, so that half can be on one side and half can be on the other
side. At most one character (the middle character) can have an odd count.
For example, we know tact coapapa is a permutation of a palindrome because it has two Ts, four As, two

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

195

Solutions to Chapter 1 | Arrays and Strings
Cs, two Ps, and one O. That O would be the center of all possible palindromes.

To be more precise, strings with even length (after removing all non-letter characters) must have

all even counts of characters. Strings of an odd length must have exactly one character with
an odd count. Of course, an “even” string can’t have an odd number of exactly one character,
otherwise it wouldn't be an even-length string (an odd number + many even numbers = an odd

number). Likewise, a string with odd length can't have all characters with even counts (sum of

evens is even). It’s therefore sufficient to say that, to be a permutation of a palindrome, a string
can have no more than one character that is odd. This will cover both the odd and the even cases.

This leads us to our first algorithm.
Solution #1
tmplementing this algorithm is fairly straightforward. We use a hash table to count how many times each
character appears. Then, we iterate through the hash table and ensure that no more than one character has
an odd count.
1

boolean isPermutationOfPalindrome(String phrase)

2

int[] table = buildCharFrequencyTable(phrase)
;

3

{

return checkMaxOneOdd (table) ;

4

}

5
6&

/* Check that no more than one character

7

boolean checkMaxOneOdd(int[]

8

boolean foundOdd = false;

3

for (int count

10

11

1)

has

an odd count.

*/

{

{

{

if (foundOdd) {

12

return false;

13

}

14

foundOdd = true;

45

}

16

}

17

return true;

18

: table)

if (count % 2 ==

table)

}

19

20

/* Map each character to a number.

21

22

* This

is

a

-> 0,

int getCharNumber(Character c)

int a = Character.getNumericValue(‘a’);

24

int z = Character.getNumericValue('z*);

25

int val = Character.getNumericValue(c)
;

26

if (a <= val && val <= z) {
return val

28

-

c -> 2,

etc.

map to -1.

a;

}

29

32

1,

{

23

27

b ->

case insensitive. Non-letter characters

return

-1;

}

31

32

/* Count how many times each character appears.

33

int[]

34

int[{] table = new int[Character.getNumericValue(‘z’)

25

36
eg

196

*/

buildCharFrequencyTable(String phrase) {

-

Character.getNumericValue(‘a’) + 1];

for (char c

:

phrase.toCharArray()) {

int x = getCharNumber
(c);

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

*/

Solutions to Chapter 1 | Arrays and Strings
ify ogel= EL e{

38
ao

table[x ]++;

48

}
}

41
A3

43

return table;

}

This algorithm takes O(N) time, where N is the length of the string.
Solution #2
We can’t optimize the big O time here since any algorithm will always have to look through the entire

string. However, we can make some smaller incremental improvements. Because this is a relatively simple
problem, it can be worthwhile to discuss some small optimizations or at least some tweaks.
Instead of checking the number of odd counts at the end, we can check as we go along. Then, as soon as
we get to the end, we have our answer.
1

boolean isPermutationOfPalindrome(String phrase)

{

2

int

countOdd = @;

3

int[] table = new int[Character.getNumericValue(‘z’)

4

5

for (char c

:

phrase.toCharArray())

6

int x = getCharNumber
(c) ;

7

if (x

!= -1)

table[x]++;

9

if (table[x] % 2 == 1) {

1s

{

{

8

countOdd++;

ie

} else {

12

countOdd- ;

13

}

14

}

15

}

16

iyi

-

Character. getNumericValue(‘a’) + 1];

return countOdd <= 1;

}.

It's important to be very clear here that this is not necessarily more optimal. It has the same big O time and

might even be slightly slower. We have eliminated a final iteration through the hash table, but now we have
to run a few extra lines of code for each character in the string.
You should discuss this with your interviewer as an alternate, but not necessarily more optimal, solution.

Solution #3
If you think more deeply about this problem, you might notice that we don’t actually need to know the
counts, Wejust need to knowif the count is even or odd. Think about flipping a light on/off (that is initially

off). If the light winds up in the of
f state, we don’t know how many times we flipped it, but we do know it
was an even count.

Given this, we can use a single integer (as a bit vector). When we see a letter, we map it to an integer
between 0 and 26 (assuming an English alphabet). Then we toggle the bit at that value. At the end of the
iteration, we check that at most one bit in the integer is set to 1,
We can easily check that no bits in the integer are 1: just compare the integer to 0. There is actually a very
elegant way to check that an integer has exactly one bit set to 1.

Picture an integer like @@0100@0. We could of course shift the integer repeatedly to check that there’s only
a single 1. Alternatively, if we subtract 1 from the number, we'll get 09001111. What's notable about this

CrackingTheCodingtnterview.com | 6th Edition

197

Solutions to Chapter 1 | Arrays and Strings
is that there is no overlap between the numbers (as opposed to say 80101900, which, when we subtract 1

from, we get 00190111.) So, we can check to see that a number has exactly one 1 because if we subtract 1
from it and then AND it with the new number, we should get 9.
90010000

-

1 = 90001111

99010000 & 90001111 = a
This leads us to our final implementation.
boolean isPermutationOfPalindrome(String phrase)

{

int bitVector = createBitVector(phrase)
;

return bitVector == © ||

checkExactlyOneBitSet(bitVector)
;

}
/* Create a bit vector for the string.

* ith bit.

For each letter with value i,

toggle the

*/

int createBitVector(String phrase)

{

int bitVector = Q;

18

for

11

i

:

phrase.toCharArray())

bitVector = toggle(bitVector,

13

{

x);

}

14

15

(char c

int x = getCharNumber(c);

return bitVector;

}

16

17

/* Toggle the ith

18

int toggle(int bitVector,

nhs:

bit

in the integer.

int index)

*/

{

if (index < @) return bitVector;

20

21

int mask = 1 << index;

22

if ((bitVector & mask) == 9) {

23

bitVector

24

}

25

bitVector &= ~mask;

26

i

27

28

|= mask;

else {

return

bitVector;

}

29

38

/* Check that

31
32

*/

boolean checkExactlyOneBitSet(int bitVector)

33

34

exactly one bit is set by subtracting one from the integer and

* ANDing it with the original integer.
return

(bitVector &

(bitVector

-

1))

{

== 6;

+}

Like the other solutions, this is O(N).
It’s interesting to note a solution that we did not explore. We avoided solutions along the lines of “create
all possible permutations and check if they are palindromes.’ While such a solution would work, it’s entirely

infeasible in the real world. Generating all permutations requires factorial time (which is actually worse than
exponential time), and it is essentially infeasible to perform on strings longer than about 10-15

characters.

| mention this (impractical) solution because a lot of candidates hear a problem like this and say, “In order
to check if A is in group B, | must know everything that is in B and then check if one of the items equals A”
That’s not always the Case, and this problem is a simple demonstration of it. You don’t need to generate all
permutations in order to check if one is a palindrome.

198

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 1 | Arrays and Strings
1.5

One Away: There are three types of edits that can be performed on strings: insert a character,
remove a character, or replace a character. Given two strings, write a function to check if they are

One edit (or zero edits) away.
EXAMPLE

pale,

ple

-> true

pales,

pale

-> true

pale,

bale -> true

pale,

bae

-> false

pg 91
SOLUTION

There is a “brute force” algorithm to do this. We could check all possible strings that are one edit away by
testing the removal of each character (and comparing), testing the replacement of each character (and
comparing), and then testing the insertion of each possible character (and comparing).
That would be too slow, so let’s not bother with implementing it.
This is one of those problems where it’s helpful to think about the “meaning” of each of these operations.
What does it mean for two strings to be one insertion, replacement, or removal away from each other?

-

Replacement: Consider two strings, such as bale and pale, that are one replacement away. Yes, that
does mean that you could replace a character in bale to make pale. But more precisely, it means that
they are different only in one place.

«

Insertion:
The strings apple and ap1le are one insertion away. This means that if you compared the
strings, they would be identical—except for a shift at some point in the strings.

«+

Removal:
The strings apple and aple are also one removal away, since removal is just the inverse of
insertion.

We can go ahead and implement this algorithm now. We'll merge the insertion and removal check into one
step, and check the replacement step separately.

Observe that you don’t need to check the strings for insertion, removal, and replacement edits. The lengths
of the strings will indicate which of these you need to check.
1

boolean oneEditAway(String first,

2

if

3

String second)

== second.length())

return oneEditReplace(first,

4

{

{

second)
;

} else if (first.length() + 1 == second.length())

5

return oneEditIinsert(first,

6

} else if (first.length()

7

-

8

{

second);

1 == second.length())

return oneEditInsert(second,

{

first);

}

3

1e@

(first.length()

return false;

}

id

12

boolean oneEditReplace(String s1,

13

boolean foundDifference = false;

14

for

1G
le

(int i = @;

if

1?

13

i < s1.length();

if (s1.charAt(i)

i++)

{

!=s2.charAt(i)) {

(foundDifference)
return

String s2) {

{

false;

}

18

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com| 6th Edition

199

Solutions to Chapter 1 | Arrays and Strings
20

foundDifference = true;

21

}

22

}

23

return true;

24

}

25

26

/* Check if you can insert a character into si to make s2.

2?

boolean oneEditInsert(String s1,

28

*/

{

int indexi = @;

29

int index2 = @;

38

while

31

(index2 < s2.length() && index1 <

if (s1.charAt(index1)

32

if

aa

(index1

s1.length())

!= s2.charAt(index2))

!= index2)

{

{

{

return false;

34

}

36

index2++;

36

} else {

37

index1++;

38

index2++;

}

39

AQ

}

41

42

String s2)

return true;

}

This algorithm (and almost any reasonable algorithm) takes O(n) time, where n is the length of the shorter
string.

;

Why is the runtime dictated by the shorter string instead of the longer string? If the strings are
the same length (plus or minus one character), then it doesn't matter whether we use the longer

string or the shorter string to define the runtime. If the strings are very different lengths, then the

algorithm will terminate in O(1) time. One really, really long string therefore won't significantly
extend the runtime. It increases the runtime only if both strings are long.

We might notice that the code for oneEditReplace is very simiar to that for oneEditInsert. We can
merge them into one method.

To do this, observe that both methods follow similar logic: compare each character and ensure that the

strings are only different by one. The methods vary in how they handle that difference. The method
oneEditReplace does nothing other than flag the difference, whereas oneEditInsert increments
the pointer to the longer string. We can handle both of these in the same method.
boolean oneEditAway(String first,

1

2

/* Length checks.

3

if (Math.abs(first.length()

String second)

{

*/

-

second.length())

> 1)

{

return false;

4

5

}

6
7

/* Get

8

String s1 = first.length()

shorter

and

longer

string.*/

<

second.length()

? first

9

String s2 = first.length()

<

second.length()

? second

:

16
11

int

12

int index2 = 0;

index1 = 9;

13

boolean foundDifference = false;

14

while

15

if

200

(index2 < s2.length() && index1 < si.length()) {
(si.charAt(index1)

!= s2.charAt(index2))

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

{

second;
:

first;

Solutions to Chapter 1 | Arrays and Strings
16

/* Ensure that this is the first difference found.*/

1?

if

i8

foundDifference = true;

(foundDifference)

return false;

iS

20

if (s1.length()

24

index1++;

22

// On replace,

move shorter pointer

}

23

} else {

24

index1++;

25

// If matching,

move shorter pointer

}

26

index2++;

27

// Always move pointer for longer string

}

28

29

== s2.length()) {

return true;

}

Some people might argue the first approach is better, as it is clearer and easier to follow. Others, however,
will argue that the second approach is better, since it’s more compact and doesn’t duplicate code (which
can facilitate maintainability).
You don't necessarily need to“pick a side.’ You can discuss the tradeoffs with your interviewer.

1.6

String Compression: Implement a method to perform basic string compression using the counts
of repeated characters. For example, the string aabcccccaaa would become a2b1c5a3. If the
“compressed” string would not become smaller than the original string, your method should return
the original string. You can assume the string has only uppercase and lowercase letters (a - z).

pg 91
SOLUTION
At first glance, implementing this method seems fairly straightforward, but perhaps a bit tedious. We iterate
through the string, copying characters to a new string and counting the repeats. At each iteration, check
if the current character is the same as the next character. If not, add its compressed version to the result.
How hard could it be?
iL

String compressBad(String str)

2

{

String compressedString = "";

3

int countConsecutive = 0;

4

for (int i = 6;

5

i <

str.length();

i++)

{

countConsecutive+t+
5

6

?

/* If next character is different than current,

8

if (i + 1 >= str.length()

||

str.charAt(i)

9

compressedString += "" + str.charAt(i)

12

countConsecutive = @;

cba

+ countConsecutive;

}

12

}

13
14

append this char to result.*/

!= str.charAt(i + 1)) {

return compressedString.length()

< str.length()

? compressedString :

str;

}

This works. Is it efficient, though? Take a look at the runtime of this code.

The runtime isO(p

+

k?), where p is the size of the original string and k is the/number of character

sequences. For example, if the string is aabccdeeaa, then there are six characte, sequences. It’s slow

because string concatenation operates in O(n*) time (see StringBuilder on pg 8p).
We can fix this by using a StringBuilder.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com| 6th Edition

201

Solutions to Chapter 1 | Arrays and Strings
String compress(String str)

{

StringBuilder compressed = new StringBuilder();
int countConsecutive = @;

for

(int i = 0;

i < str.length();

i++)

{

countConsecutive++;

/* If next character is different than current,

if (i + 1 >= str.length()

||

str.charAt(i)

append this char to result.*/

!= str.charAt(i + 1)) {

compressed.append(str.charAt(i));
compressed.append(countConsecutive)
;
countConsecutive = 09;

i
}

13

return compressed.length()

14

15

< str.length()

? compressed.toString()

:

str;

}

Both of these solutions create the compressed string first and then return the shorter of the input string
and the compressed string.
Instead, we can check in advance, This will be more optimal in cases where we don't have a large number of
repeating characters. It will avoid us having to create a stringthat we never use. Thedownside of this is that
it causes a Second loop through the characters and also adds nearly duplicated code.
ay

String compress(String str) {

ON
Oo
Ui fb Ww Ph

/* Check final length and return input string if it would be longer.

*/

int finalLength = countCompression(str)
;
if

(finalLength >= str.length())

return str;

StringBuilder compressed = new StringBuilder(finalLength);
int

countConsecutive

for (int i = 0;

// initial capacity

= @;

i < str.length();

i++)

{

countConsecutive++;

/* If next character is different than current,

if (i + 1 >= str.length()

||

str.charAt(i)

append this

char to result.*/

!= str.charAt(i + 1)) {

compressed.append(str.charAt(i));
compressed.append(countConsecutive)
;
countConsecutive = @;

}

}

return compressed.toString()
;

18

19
}

21

int countCompression(String str)

22

{

int compressedLength = 0;

23

int countConsecutive = 9;

24

for (int i = 0;

25

i < str.length();

i++)

{

countConsecutivet+;

26

27

/* If next

28

if (i + 1 >= str.length()

29

character

||

str.charAt(i)

increase the length.*/

!= str.charAt(i + 1)) {

compressedLength += 1 + String.valueOf(countConsecutive).length();

30

countConsecutive = Q;

elk

}

32

}

35

return compressedLength;

34

is different than current,

}

202

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 1 | Arrays and Strings
One other benefit of this approach is that we can initialize StringBuilder to its necessary capacity

up-front. Without this, StringBuilder will (behind the scenes) need to double its capacity every time it
hits capacity. The capacity could be double what we ultimately need.

1.7

Rotate Matrix: Given an image represented by an NxN matrix, where each pixel in the image is 4
bytes, write a method to rotate the image by 90 degrees. Can you do this in place?

pg 91
SOLUTION

Because we're rotating the matrix by 90 degrees, the easiest way to do this is to implement the rotation in
layers. We perform a circular rotation on each layer, moving the top edge to the right edge, the right edge

to the bottom edge, the bottom edge to the left edge, and the left edge to the top edge.

How do we perform this four-way edge swap? One option is to copy the top edge to an array, and then

move the left to the top, the bottom to the left, and so on. This requires O(N) memory, which is actually
unnecessary.

Au
mb
lw ND be

A better way to do this is to implement the swap index by index. In this case, we do the following:
for i=@ton
temp = top[i];
top[i]

= left[i]

left[{i] = bottom[i]

bottom[i]
right[i]

= right[i]
= temp

We perform such a swap on each layer, starting from the outermost layer and working our way inwards.

(Alternatively, we could start from the inner layer and work outwards.)
The code for this algorithm is below.
1

boolean rotate(int[][]

matrix)

2

if (matrix.length == @

B

int

n = matrix.length;

4

for

(int layer = @;

5

layer <n / 2;

!= matrix[@].length)

layer++)

return false;

{

int first = layer;

6

int last =n

7

for(int i = first;

8

{

|| matrix.length

- 1

-

layer;
i < last;

i++)

{

int offset = i - first;

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

203

Solutions to Chapter 1
9

| Arrays and Strings

int top = matrix[first][i];

// save top

18

11

// left -> top

12

matrix[first][i] = matrix[last-offset][first];

13

14

// bottom -> left

1s

matrix[last-offset ][first] = matrix[last][last - offset];

16

// right -> bottom
matrix[last][last - offset] = matrix[i][last];

17
is
AS

28

// top -> right

21

matrix[i][last]

22

= top;

//

right <-

saved top

}

23

}

24

return true;

25

}

This algorithm is O(N*), which is the best we can do since any algorithm must touch all N? elements.

1.8

Zero Matrix: Write an algorithm such that if an element in an MxN matrix is 0, its entire row and
column are set to 0.

pg 91
SOLUTION

At first glance, this problem seems easy: just iterate through the matrix and every time we see a cell with
value zero, set its row and column to 0. There's one problem with that solution though: when we come
across other cells in that row or column, we’ll see the zeros and change their row and column to zero. Pretty
soon, our entire matrix will be set to zeros.

One way around this is to keep a second matrix which flags the zero locations. We would then do a second

pass through the matrix to set the zeros. This would take O(MN) space.

Do we really need O(MN) space? No. Since we're going to set the entire row and column to zero, we don’t
need to track that it was exactly cel1[2][4] (row 2, column 4). We only need to know that row 2 has a
zero somewhere, and column 4 has a zero somewhere. We'll set the entire row and column to zero anyway,

so why would we care to keep track of the exact location of the zero?
The code below implements this algorithm. We use two arrays to keep track ofall the rows with zeros and all
the columns with zeros. We then nullify rows and columns based on the values in these arrays.
1

void setZeros(int[][]

matrix) {

2

boolean[]

row = new boolean[matrix. length];

3

boolean[] column = new boolean[matrix[@].length];

4

5

// Store the row and column index with value @

6

for (int i = @;

7

i < matrix.length;

for (int j = 0;

8

if (matrix[i][j] == 6) {

=

row[i] = true;

16

column[j]

cin
42

}

= true;

}

13}
14

204

i++)

{

j < matrix[@].length;
j++) {

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 1 | Arrays and Strings
45

// Nullify rows

16

for (int i = @;

i < row.length;

1?

if (row[i])

nullifyRow(matrix,

18

i++)

{

i);

}

13

28

// Nullify columns

21

for

p22

ys)
24

}

(int j

= 0;

j

<

column.length;

j++)

{

if (column[j]) nullifyColumn(matrix, j);

}

2o
26

void nullifyRow(int[][]

27

for

28

= @;

matrix,

int row)

j < matrix[@].length;

{
j++)

{

matrix[row][j] = @;

29
3@

(int j

}
}

31

32

void nullifyColumn(int[][] matrix, int col) {

33

for

34

i < matrix.length;

i++)

{

= @;

}

35
36

(int i = 6;

matrix[i][col]

}

To make this somewhat more space efficient, we could use a bit vector instead of a boolean array. It would

still be

O(N) space.

We can reduce the space to 0(1) by using the first row as a replacement for the row array and the first
columnas a replacement for the column array. This works as follows:
1. Check if the first row and first column have any zeros, and set variables

rowHasZero and

columnHasZero. (We'll nullify the first row and first column later, if necessary.)
2. iterate through the rest of the matrix, setting matrix[i][@] and matrix[@][j] to zero whenever
there's a zero inmatrix[i][j].

3. Iterate through rest of matrix, nullifying row i if there’s a zero inmatrix[i][@].
4. iterate through rest of matrix, nullifying column j if there’s a zero inmatrix[@][Jj].

5. Nullify the first row and first column, if necessary (based on values from Step 1).
This code is below:
1

void setZeros(int[][]

matrix)

2

boolean

3

boolean colHasZero = false;

{

rowHasZero = false;

4

5

// Check if first row has a zero

6

for

(int j

= 0;

j

< matrix[@].length;

7

if (matrix[@][j] == @) {

8

rowHasZero = true;

5

{

break;

198
11

j++)

}
}

12

13

// Check if first column has a zero

14

for (int i = @;

15

i < matrix.length;

if (matrix[i][@]

== 9)

16

colHasZero = true;

i?

break;

i++)

{

{

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

205

Solutions to Chapter 1 | Arrays and Strings
12

}

19

}

29

21

// Check for zeros in the rest of the array

22

for (int i = 1;

23

i < matrix.length;

i++)

{

for (int j = 1; j < matrix({@].length;j++)

{

if (matrix{i]({j] == ©) {

24
25

matrix[i][@] = 2;
matrix[@][j] = 8;

26
2?

}

28

}

29

}

38

31

// Nullify rows

based on values in first column

33

for (int i = 1;

i < matrix.length;

i++) {

if (matrix[i][@] == 9) {

33
34

nullifyRow(matrix,

35

i);

}

36

}

37

3g

// Nullify columns based on values

38

for (int j = 1;

AQ

in first

row

j < matrix[@].length; j++) {

if (matrix[@][j] == 8) {

Ai

nullifyColumn(matrix,

42

3);

}

43

}

44

45

// Nullify first row

AG

if (rowHasZero) {

A?

nullifyRow(matrix,

AB

}

56

//

51

if (colHasZero) {

52

column

nullifyColumn(matrix,

53
S4

Nullify first

@);

@);

}
}

This code has a lot of “do this for the rows, then the equivalent action for the column.” In an interview, you
could abbreviate this code by adding comments and TODOs that explain that the next chunk of code looks
the same as the earlier code, but using rows. This would allow you to focus on the most important parts of
the algorithm.

1.9

String Rotation: Assume you havea method isSubstring which checks if one word is a substring
of another. Given two strings, $1 and S2, write code to check if $2 is a rotation of $1 using only one

callto isSubstring (eg.,"°waterbottle’
is a rotation of“erbottlewat”).

pg9i
SOLUTION

if we imagine that S2 is a rotation of $1, then we can ask what the rotation point is. For example, if you

rotate waterbottle after wat, you get erbottlewat. In a rotation, we cut $1 into two parts, x and y,
and rearrange them to get s2.

s1 = xy = waterbottle
x

206

= wat

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 1 | Arrays and Strings
y = erbottle

S2 = yx = erbottlewat
So, we need to check if there’s a way to split $1 into x and y such that xy = s1 and yx = S2. Regardless of

where the division between x andy is, we can See that yx will always be a substring of xyxy. That is, s2 will
always be a substring
of $151.

And this is precisely how we solve the problem: simply do isSubstring(s1s1,

s2).

The code below implements this algorithm.
1

boolean isRotation(String si,

2

String s2)

{

int len = s1.length();

3

/* Check that

4

if (len == s2.length() && len > @) {

s1 and

s2 are equal length and not empty */

5

/* Concatenate si and s1 within new buffer */

6

String sisi = si + s1;

7

return isSubstring(sis1,

8
9

1e

s2);

i
return false;

}

The runtime of this varies based on the runtime of isSubstring. But if you assume that isSubstring

runs in O(A+B
) time (on strings of length A and B), then the runtime of isRotation isO(N).

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

207

Solutions to Linked Lists

2.1

Remove Dups: Write code to remove duplicates from an unsorted linked list.
FOLLOW UP

How would you solve this problem if a temporary buffer is not allowed?

pg 94
SOLUTION

In order to remove duplicates from a linked list, we need to be able to track duplicates. A simple hash table
will work well here.

Inthe below solution, we simply iterate through the linked list, adding each element to a hash table. When
we discover a duplicate element, we remove the element and continue iterating. We can do this all in one
pass since we are using a linked list.
1

void deleteDups(LinkedListNode n)

2

{

HashSet<Integer> set = new HashSet<Integer>();

3

LinkedListNode previous = null;

4

while

5

if

6

(n

!= null) {

(set.contains(n.data))
previous.next

=

{

n.next;

} else {

?

8

set.add(n.data)
;

8

previous = n;

18

}

Ti

n

wa
13

=

n.next;

}
}

The above solution takes O(N) time, where N is the number of elements in the linked list.
Follow Up: No Buffer Allowed
If we don’t have a buffer, we can iterate with two pointers: current which iterates through the linked list,
void deleteDups(LinkedListNode head)

{

LinkedListNode current = head;
while
/*

(current
Remove

!= null)

all future

LinkedListNode

ad OT

de WD te

and runner which checks all subsequent nodes for duplicates,

while

runner

(runner.next

{
nodes
=

that have the same value

current;

!= null)

{

if (runner.next.data == current.data)

208

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

{

*/

Solutions to Chapter 2 | Linked Lists
8

runner .next = runner.next.next;

9

} else {

18

runner =

44

runner .next;

}

123

}

13

current

14

= current.next;

}

}

15

This code runs in 0(1) space, but O(N’) time.

2.2

Return Kth to Last: Implement an algorithm to find the kth to last element of a singly linked list.
pg 223

SOLUTION

We will approach this problem both recursively and non-recursively. Remember that recursive solutions are
often cleaner but less optimal. For example, in this problem, the recursive implementation is about half the

length of the iterative solution but also takes

O(n) space, where n is the number of elements in the linked

list.

Note that for this solution, we have defined k such that passing ink = 1 would return the last element, k
=

2 would return to the second to last element, and so on. it is equally acceptable to define k such that k

= @ would return the last element.

Solution #1: if linked list size is known

If the size of the linked list is known, then the kth to last element is the (length

- k)th element. We can

just iterate through the linked list to find this element. Because this solution is so trivial, we can almost be
sure that this is not what the interviewer intended.
Solution #2: Recursive

This algorithm recurses through the linked list. When it hits the end, the method passes back a counter set
to 0. Each parent call adds 1 to this counter. When the counter equals k, we know we have reached the kth
to last element ofthe linked list.
Implementing this is short and sweet—provided we have a way of“passing back”
an integer value through

the stack. Unfortunately, we can’t pass back a node and a counter using normal return statements. So how
do we handle this?
Approach A: Don't Return the Element.

One way to do this is to change the problem to simply printing the kth to last element. Then, we can pass
back the value of the counter simply through return values.
i

int printKthToLast(LinkedListNode head,

if (head == null)

2

return

3

4

0;

}

5

int index = printkthToLast(head.next,

6

if (index == k)

@

k) + 1;

{

System.out.printin(k + “th to last node is “ + head.data);

8

}

9
iQ

int k) {

{

return index;
}

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

209

Solutions to Chapter 2 | Linked Lists
Of course, this is only a valid solution if the interviewer says it is valid.
Approach B: Use C++.

A second way to solve this is to use C++ and to pass values by reference. This allows us to return the node
value, but also update the counter by passing a pointer to it.
4

node*

2

if

nthToLast(node* head,
(head == NULL)

3

int k,

int& i)

{

{

return NULL;

4

}

5

node* nd = nthToLast(head->next,

6

a eta tule

7

if (i == k)

8

k,

i);

{

return head;

9

}

12

return

nd;

a
12

13

node* nthToLast(node* head,

14

int

15

16

int k)

{

i = Q;

return

nthToLast(head,

k,

i);

}

Approach C: Create a Wrapper Class.
We described earlier that the issue was that we couldn't simultaneously return a counter and an index. If
we wrap the counter value with simple class (or even a single element array), we can mimic passing by
reference.
1

class

2

Index {

public int value = Q;

3

4}

4

5

LinkedListNode kthToLast(LinkedListNode

&

head,

int k)

{

int

Index idx)

Index idx = new Index();

7

return kthToLast(head,

8

k,

idx);

}

9

18

LinkedListNode kthToLast(LinkedListNode head,

11

if (head == null)

42

{

return null;

13

}

14

LinkedListNode node = kthToLast(head.next,

15

idx.value = idx.value + 1;

16

if

1?

(idx.value == k)

k,

idx);

{

return head;

18

}

19

26

k,

{

return

node;

}

Each of these recursive solutions takes
There are

O(n) space due to the recursive calls.

anumber of other solutions that we haven’t addressed,
We could store the counter in a Static vari-

able. Or, we could create a class that stores both the node and the counter, and return an instance of that
class. Regardless of which solution we pick, we need a way to update both the node and the counter ina
way that all levels of the recursive stack will see.

210

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 2 | Linked Lists
Solution #3: Iterative

A more optimal, but less straightforward, solution is to implement this iteratively. We can use two pointers,
p1 and p2. We place them k nodes apart in the linked list by putting p2 at the beginning and moving p1
K nodes into the list. Then, when we move them at the same pace, p1 will hit the end of the linked list after

LENGTH - kKsteps. At that point, p2 willbe LENGTH -

k nodes into the list, or k nodes from the end.

The code below implements this algorithm.
1

LinkedListNode

nthToLast(LinkedListNode head,

2

LinkedListNode pi =

3

LinkedListNode p2 = head;

int k)

{

head;

4

5

/* Move pi

6

for (int i = 0;

k nodes into the list.*/

i <

7

if (pl == null)

8

pl

9

k;

i++)

{

return null;

// Out of bounds

= pl.next;

}

19

th

/* Move them at the same pace.

ie

*

13

while

14

(pi

When pl hits the end,

p2 will be at the right

*/

!= null)

{

pl = p1.next;

1

p2 =

16

p2.next;

}

17
18

element.

return

p2;

}

This algorithm takes O(n) time and 0(1) space.

2.3.

Delete Middle Node: implement an algorithm to delete a node in the middle {i.e., any node but

the first and last node, not necessarily the exact middle) of a singly linked list, given only access to
that node.
EXAMPLE

Input: the node c from the linked list a- >b- >c->d->e->Ff
Result: nothing is returned, but the new linked list looks like

a- >b->d->e->f

pg 94
SOLUTION

In this problem, you are not given access to the head of the linked list. You only have access to that node.

The solution is simply to copy the data from the next node over to the current node, and then to delete the
next node.

The code below implements this algorithm.
1

boolean deleteNode(LinkedListNode n)

2

if (n == null

3

||

return false;

4

}

//

5

LinkedListNode

6

n.data

= next.data;

?

n.next

=

8

return true;

9

{

n.next == null) {

next

Failure
= n.next;

next.next;

}

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

211

Solutions to Chapter 2 | Linked Lists
Note that this problem cannot be solved if the node to be deleted is the last node in the linked list. That’s

okay—your interviewer wants you to point that out, and to discuss how to handle this case. You could, for
example, consider marking the node as dummy.

2.4

Partition: Write code to partition a linked list around a value x, such that all nodes less than x come

before all nodes greater than or equal to x. If x is contained within the list, the values of x only need
to be after the elements less than x (see below). The partition element x can appear anywhere in the
“right partition’; it does not need to appear between the left and right partitions.
EXAMPLE

Input:

3

Output:

3 ->1->2->10->5->5->8

-> 5

-> 8 -> 5 -> 10 -> 2 -> 1{partition
=5]

pg 94
SOLUTION

If this were an array, we would need to be careful about how we shifted elements. Array shifts are very
expensive.

However, ina linked list, the situation is much easier. Rather than shifting and swapping elements, we can
actually create two different linked lists: one for elements less than x, and one for elements greater than or
equal to x.
We iterate through the linked list, inserting elements into our before list or our after list. Once we reach

the end of the linked list and have completed this splitting, we merge the two lists.
This approach is mostly “stable” in that elements stay in their original order, other than the necessary movement around the partition. The code below implements this approach.
1

/ *Pass

2

LinkedListNode

in the head of the linked list and the value to partition around */
partition(LinkedListNode node,

3

LinkedListNode beforeStart = null;

4

LinkedListNode beforeEnd = null;

5

LinkedListNode afterStart = null;

&

LinkedListNode afterEnd = null;

int x)

7

a

/ *Partition list */

3

while

18

(node

!= null)

{

LinkedListNode next = node.next;

alll

node.next = null;

te

if

(node.data

< x)

{

13

/ *Insert node into end of before list */

14

if (beforeStart == null)

45
16

ee

}

{

beforeStart

=

beforeEnd

beforeStart;

=

node;

else {

18

beforeEnd.next

13

beforeEnd = node;

26

}

ai

} else {

=

node;

22

/ *Insert node into end of after list */

23

if

D4.
25
26

212

(afterStart

==

null)

{

afterStart = node;
afterEnd = afterStart;
} else {

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

{

Solutions to Chapter 2 | Linked Lists
af

afterEnd.next = node;

23

afterEnd = node;

23

}

398

}

31

node

32

= next;

}

33)

34

if (beforeStart

35

== null) {

return afterStart;

}

36
37

38

/* Merge

38

beforeEnd.next = afterStart;

46
41

before

list and after list */

return beforeStart
;
}

If it bugs you to keep around four different variables for tracking two linked lists, you're not alone. We can
make this code a bit shorter.

\f we don't care about making the elements of the list “stable” (which there’s no obligation to, since the
interviewer hasn't specified that), then we can instead rearrange the elements by growing the list at the
head and tail.
In this approach, we start a”new’ list (using the existing nodes). Elements bigger than the pivot element are
put at the tail and elements smaller are put at the head. Each time we insert an element, we update either
the head or tail.
21

LinkedListNode partition(LinkedListNode node,

2

LinkedListNode head = node;

3

LinkedListNode tail = node;

int x)

{

4

5

while (node

!=null)

{

6

LinkedListNode next = node.next;

?

if (node.data < x)

{

8

/* Insert

node at

9

node.next

= head;

head.

*/

ce)

/* Insert node at tail.

*/

13

tail.next

16

head = node;

11

} else {

14

tail

15

=

= node;

node;

}

16

node = next;

17

}

18

tail.next = null;

19

26

// The head

21

return

22

has

changed,

so we need to return it to the user.

head;

}

There are many equally optimal solutions to this problem. If you came up with a different one, that’s okay!

CrackingTheCoding!nterview.com | 6th Edition

213

Solutions to Chapter 2 | Linked Lists
2.5

Sum Lists: You have two numbers represented bya linked list, where each node contains a single

digit. The digits are stored in reverse order, such that the 1's digit is at the head of the list. Write a
function that adds the two numbers and returns the sum as a linked list.
EXAMPLE

Input: (7-> 1

-> 6)

Output:2

1

->

+

(5

-> 9

-> 2).Thatis,617 + 295.

-> 9.Thatis,912.

FOLLOW UP
Suppose the digits are stored in forward order. Repeat the above problem.
Input:
(6 ->

1

-> 7)

Output:9

1

->

->

+ (2

-> 9

->

5).Thatis,617 + 295.

2.Thatis,912.

pg 95
SOLUTION

It’s useful to remember in this problem how exactly addition works. Imagine the problem:
617
+295

First, we add 7 and 5 to get 12. The digit 2 becomes the last digit of the number, and 1 gets carried over to
the next step. Second, we add 1, 1, and 9 to get 11. The 1 becomes the second digit, and the other 1 gets
carried over the final step. Third and finally, we add 1, 6 and 2 to get 9. So, our value becomes 912.

We can mimic this process recursively by adding node by node, carrying over any “excess” data to the next

node. Let's walk through
7
+

->

1->

this for the below linked list:

6

5->9->2

We do the following:
1. We add 7 and 5 first, getting a result of 12. 2 becomes the first node in our linked list, and we “carry” the
1 to the next sum.

List:

2

->

?

2, We then add 1 and 9, as well as the “carry,” getting a result of

11. 1 becomes the second element of our

linked list, and we carry the 1 to the next sum.

List:

2

-> 1

->?

3. Finally, we add 6, 2 and our“carry,’to get 9. This becomes the final element of our linked list.

List:

2

-> 1

-> 9.

et

The code below implements this algorithm.
LinkedListNode addLists(LinkedListNode 11,

LinkedListNode 12,

if (11 == null && 12 == null && carry == @) {
Pe

return

null;

wd WL

t
LinkedListNode result = new LinkedListNode();

OO

if (11

mm
mS 2

int
value
=
carry;

}

!= null)

{

value += 11.data;

214

if (12

!= null)

{

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

int

carry)

{

Solutions to Chapter 2 | Linked Lists
value += 12.data;

12

}

13
14

result.data

15

= value % 10;

/* Second digit of number */

16

1?

/* Recurse */

18

if (11 !=null ||

12 !=null) {

aS

LinkedListNode more = addLists(11 == null ? null

28

12 == null ? null

11.next,

value >= 10 ? 1: Q);

21

result.setNext (more) ;

22
23

}

24.

return

25

:

: 12.next,

result;

P

In implementing this code, we must be careful to handle the condition when one linked list is shorter than
another. We don’t want to get a null pointer exception.

Follow Up
Part B is conceptually the same (recurse, carry the excess), but has some additional complications when it
comes to implementation:
1.

One list may be shorter than the other, and we cannot handle this “on the fly.’ For example, suppose we
were adding (1 -> 2 -> 3 -> 4) and (5 -> 6-> 7). We need to know that the 5 should be “matched” with the

2, not the 1.We can accomplish this by comparing the lengths ofthe lists in the beginning and padding
the shorter list with zeros.

In the first part, successive results were added to the tail (i.e., passed forward). This meant that the recursive call would be passed the carry, and would return the result (which is then appended to the tail). In
this case, however, results are added to the head (i.e., passed backward). The recursive call must return

the result, as before, as well as the carry. This is not terribly challenging to implement, but it is more
cumbersome. We can solve this issue by creating a wrapper class called Partial Sum.

class PartialSum {
public

WPM

kB

The code below implements this algorithm.

LinkedListNode sum = null;

public int carry = 0;

OW on

Dna

ii
LinkedListNode

addLists(LinkedListNode

11,

LinkedListNode 12)

{

int leni1 = length(11);
int len2 = length(12);
/* Pad the shorter list with zeros if (lenl <

len2)

see note (1)

*/

{

11 = padList(11,

len2 -

len1);

leni -

len2);

} else {

12 = padList(12,

i
/* Add lists */

PartialSum sum = addListsHelper(11, 12);
/* If there was a carry value left over,
* Otherwise,

just return the linked

if (sum.carry == 0)

insert this at the front of the list.

list.

*/

{

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

215

Solutions to Chapter 2 | Linked Lists
23

return

24

} else {

sum.sum;

25

LinkedListNode result = insertBefore(sum.sum,

26

return

a?
28

sum.carry)
;

result;

}
}

29

36

PartialSum addListsHelper(LinkedListNode 11,

31

if (11 == null && 12 == null)

32

LinkedListNode 12)

{

{

PartialSum sum = new PartialSum();

33

return sum;

34

}

35

/* Add smaller digits

36

PartialSum sum = addListsHelper(11.next,

recursively */
12.next);

EM
38

/* Add

39

int val = sum.carry + 1l1.data + 12.data;

carry to

current data

*/

48

41

/*

42

LinkedListNode full result = insertBefore(sum.sum,

Insert

sum of current digits

*/

val % 10);

43

44

/*

45

sum.sum = full result;

46

sum.carry = val

47

return

48

Return sum so far,
/

and the

carry value */

10;

sum;

}

49

50

/* Pad the

51

LinkedListNode padList(LinkedListNode 1,

list with zeros

52

LinkedListNode head = 1;

5

for

54

i <

padding;

head = insertBefore(head,

55

i++)

int padding)

{

{

Q);

}

56

57

(int i = @;

*/

return

head;

}

58

59

/* Helper function to insert node in the front of a linked list */

6@

LinkedListNode insertBefore(LinkedListNode list,

int data)

61

LinkedListNode node = new LinkedListNode(data)
;

62

if (list

63

!=null) {

node.next = list;

64

}

65

66

{

return

node;

}

Note how we have pulled insertBefore(), padList(), and length() (not listed) into their own
methods. This makes the code cleaner and easier to read—a wise thing to do in your interviews!

2.6

Palindrome: implement a function to check if a linked list is a palindrome.

pg 95
SOLUTION

To approach this problem, we can picture a palindrome like@

->

1

->

2

->

1

->

@.We know that,

since it’s a palindrome, the list must be the same backwards and forwards. This leads us to our first solution.

216

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 2 | Linked Lists
Solution #1: Reverse and Compare

Our first solution is to reverse the linked list and compare the reversed list to the original list. If they're the
same, the lists are identical.
Note that when we compare the linked list to the reversed list, we only actually need to compare the first

half of the list. If the first half of the normal list matches the first half of the reversed list, then the second half
of the normal list must match the second half of the reversed list.
1

boolean isPalindrome(LinkedListNode head)

{

2

LinkedListNode reversed = reverseAndClone(head)
;

3

return isEqual(head,

a

reversed)
;

Fy

5

6

LinkedListNode reverseAndClone(LinkedListNode node)

7

LinkedListNode head = null;

8

while (node

!=null)

{

{

S

LinkedListNode n = new LinkedListNode(node.data);

18

n.next = head;

11

head = n;

12

// Clone

node = node.next;

13

}

14

return head;

15
}
16

17

boolean isEqual(LinkedListNode one,

18

while

19

if

223

(one

!= null && two

(one.data

!= two.data)

LinkedListNode two)

{

{

{

return false;

21

}

22

one = one.next;

23

two = two.next;

}

24
25

26

!=null)

return one == null && two == null;

}

Observe that we’ve modularized this code into reverse and iSEqua!l functions. We've also created

anew

class so that we can return both the head and the tail of this method. We could have also returned a twoelement array, but that approach is less maintainable.
Solution #2: Iterative Approach
We want to detect linked lists where the front half of the list is the reverse of the second half. How would we
do that? By reversing the front half of the list. A stack can accomplish this.
We need to push the first half of the elements onto a stack. We can do this in two different ways, depending
on whether or not we know the size of the linked list.
If we know the size of the linked list, we can iterate through the first half of the elements in a standard for

loop, pushing each element onto a stack. We must be careful, of course, to handle the case where the length
of the linked list is odd.

If we don't know the size of the linked list, we can iterate through the linked list, using the fast runner/ slow
runner technique described in the beginning of the chapter. At each step in the loop, we push the data from
the slow runner onto a stack. When the fast runner hits the end of the list, the slow runner will have reached
the middle of the linked list. By this point, the stack will have all the elements from the front of the linked

list, but in reverse order.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

217

Solutions to Chapter 2 | Linked Lists
Now, we simply iterate through the rest of the linked list. At each iteration, we compare the node to the top

of the stack. If we complete the iteration without finding a difference, then the linked list is a palindrome.
1

boolean isPalindrome(LinkedListNode head) {

2

LinkedListNode fast = head;

3

LinkedListNode slow = head;

4

5

Stack<Integer> stack = new Stack<Integer>();

&

7

/*

8

*

9

Push elements from first half of linked list onto stack.

(which is moving at 2x speed)

When fast runner

reaches the end of the linked list, then we

* know we’re at the middle */

1e

while

11

(fast

!=null && fast.next

!=null)

{

stack.push(slow.
data) ;

12

Slow = Slow. next;

13

fast

14

= fast.next.next;

}

15

16

/* Has

17

if

18

odd number of elements,

(fast

!= null)

so skip the middle element */

{

slow = slow.next;

19

}

20

21

while

2

(slow

int top =

!=null)

{

stack.pop().intValue();

23

24

/* If values are different,

25

if (top !=slow.data)

26

not

a palindrome */

return false;

27

}

28

slow = slow.next;

29

}
return true;

36

31

then it’s

{

}

Solution #3: Recursive Approach

First, a word on notation: in this solution, when we use the notation node Kx, the variable K indicates the

value of the node data, and x (which is either f or b) indicates whether we are referring to the front node
with that value or the back node. For example, in the below linked list, node 2b would refer to the second
(back) node with value 2.
Now, like many linked list problems, you can approach this problem recursively. We may have some intuitive idea that we want to compare element @ andelementn

-

1, element 1 and element n-2, element 2

and element n- 3, and so on, until the middle element(s). For example:

e(1(2(3)2)1)@8@
In order to apply this approach, we first need to know when we've reached the middle element, as this will
form our base case. We can do this by passingin length

-

2 forthe length each time. When

the length

equals @ or 1, we're at the center of the linked list. This is because the length is reduced by 2 eachtime. Once

we've recursed “% times, length will be down to 0.
1

recurse(Node

2

n,

int length)

if (length == @ ||

3)

{

length == 1) {

return [something]; // At middle

4

}

5

recurse(n.next,

218

length -

2);

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 2 | Linked Lists
e)

7h
This method will form the outline of the isPalindrome method. The “meat” of the algorithm though is

comparing nodeitonoden

-

itocheck if the linked list is a palindrome. How do we do that?

Let's examine what the call stack looks like:

1

vi = isPalindrome:

list

= @(1(2 (3) 2

2

v2 = isPalindrome: list

3

v3 = isPalindrome:

4

list

= 3

)1) @.

length = 7

2) 1) 0. length =5

3

)

2)

1

)

)

2

) 1

)

@. length = 1

@.

length = 3

returns v3

6

returns v2

7

8

list = 2 (

v4 = isPalindrome:

5

= 1 (2 (3)

returns v1

returns

?

In the above call stack, each call wants to check if the list is a palindrome by comparing its head node with
the corresponding node from the back of the list. That is:
*

Line 1needsto compare node Of withnode @b

+

Line 2needsto compare node 1f withnode 1b

+

Line 3 needs to compare node 2f withnode

2b

Line 4needstocomparenode 3f withnode

3b.

If we rewind the stack, passing nodes back as described below, we can dojust that:

+

Line 4sees that it is the middle node (since length = 1), and passes back head. next. The value head
equalsnode 3,sohead.nextisnode 2b.

Line 3 compares its head, node

2f, to returned_node (the value from the previous recursive call),

which is node 2b. If the values match, it passes areferenceto node 1b (returned_node.next) up
to line 2.

-

Line 2 compares its head (node

1f) to returned_node (node

1b). If the values match, it passes a

reference to node @b (or, returned_node.next) up to fine 1.
+

Line 1 compares its head, node

Of, to returned_node, whichis node

@b. If the values match, it

returns true.

To generalize, each call compares its head to returned_node, and then passes returned_node.next

up the stack. In this way, every node i gets compared to noden

-

i.If at any point the values do not

match, we return false, and every call up the stack checks for that value.
But wait, you might ask, sometimes we said we'll return a boolean value, and sometimes we're returning
a node. Which

is it?

It's both. We create a simple class with two members, a boolean and a node, and return an instance of
that class.
1

class Result {

2

public

LinkedListNode node;

3

public

boolean

result;

a
The example below illustrates the parameters and return values from this sample list.

1

2
s)

isPalindrome:

list =@(1(2(3(4)3)2)41)
90. len=9

isPalindrome: list = 1 ( 2 ( 3 (
isPalindrome: list

= 2 (3 (4

)3)2)1
) 0. len =7
)3)2)1)@®. len=5

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

219

Solutions to Chapter 2 | Linked Lists
4

isPalindrome: list = 3 (

5

isPalindrome:

6

returns

7

returns

8

returns

g

node 2b,

node 1b,

returns node @b,

416

list = 4

node 3b,

true

true

true

true

returns null, true

Implementing this code is now just a matter of filling in the details.
1

boolean isPalindrome(LinkedListNode head) {

2

int length = lengthOfList(head)
;

3

Result p = isPalindromeRecurse(head,

4

return p.result;

5

length);

}

6

?

Result isPalindromeRecurse(LinkedListNode head,

8

if (head == null ||

9

return new Result(head,

10

int length)

{

length <= @) { // Even number of nodes
true)
;

} else if (length == 1) { // Odd number of nodes

11

return new Result(head.next,

12

true);

}

13

14

/* Recurse on sublist. */

15

Result res = isPalindromeRecurse(head.next, length - 2);

16

1?

/* If child calls are not a palindrome,

18

* a failure.

19

if (!res.result

20

return

oe

pass back up

*/
||

res.node == null) {

res;

}

22

23

/* Check if matches corresponding node on other side.

24

res.result =

*/

(head.data == res.node.data);

25

26

/* Return

27

res.node = res.node.next;

corresponding node.

*/

28

29

30

return res;

}

31

32

int lengthOfList(LinkedListNode n)

23

int size = @;

34

while

!= null) {

sizett;

35
36

n = n.next;

37

}

38

39

(n

{

return size;

}

Some of you might be wondering why we went through all this effort to create a special Result class. Isn't
there a better way? Not really—at least not in Java.
However, if we were implementing this in C or C++, we could have passed in a double pointer.
1

bool isPalindromeRecurse(Node head,

2

3

4}

It's ugly, but it works.

220

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

int length,

Node**

next)

{

Solutions to Chapter 2 | Linked Lists
2.7.

_—Intersection: Given two (singly) linked lists, determine if the two lists intersect. Return the
intersecting node. Note that the intersection is defined based on reference, not value. That is, if the

kth node of the first linked list is the exact same node (by reference) as the jth node of the second
linked list, then they are intersecting.

pg 95
SOLUTION

Let’s draw a picture of intersecting linked lists to get a better feel for what is going on.
Here is a picture of intersecting linked lists:

O-O-O-O,.

And here is a picture of non-intersecting linked lists:

We should be careful here to not inadvertently draw a special case by making the linked lists the same
length.

Let’s first ask how we would determine if two linked lists intersect.
Determining if there's an intersection.
How would we detect if two linked lists intersect? One approach would be to use a hash table and just
throw all the linked lists nodes into there. We would need to be careful to reference the linked lists by their
memory location, not by their value.

There’s an easier way though. Observe that two intersecting linked lists will always have the same last node.

Therefore, we can just traverse to the end of each linked list and compare the last nodes.
How do we find where the intersection is, though?
Finding the intersecting node.
One thought is that we could traverse backwards through each linked list. When the linked lists “split”, that’s

the intersection. Of course, you can't really traverse backwards througha singly linked list.
If the linked lists were the same length, you could just traverse through them at the same time. When they
collide, that’s your intersection.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com| 6th Edition

221

Solutions to Chapter 2 | Linked Lists

When theyre not the same length, we'd like to just “chop off“—or ignore—those excess (gray) nodes.
How can we do this? Well, if we know the lengths of the two linked lists, then the difference between those

two linked lists will tell us how much to chop off.
We can get the lengths at the same time as we get the tails of the linked lists (which we used in the first step
to determine if there's an intersection).
Putting it all together.
We now have a multistep process.
1.

Run through each linked list to get the lengths and the tails.

2.

Compare the tails. If they are different (by reference, not by value), return immediately. There is no intersection.

3h, Set two pointers to the start of each linked list.
4. On the longer linked list, advance its pointer by the difference in lengths.

Now, traverse on each linked list until the pointers are the same.

5.

The implementation for this is below.
LinkedListNode findIntersection(LinkedListNode list1,

1

if (list1 == null

2

||

list2 == null)

LinkedListNode list2) {

return null;

2
4

/* Get tail and sizes.

§

Result result1 = getTailAndSize(list1);

*/

&

Result result2 = getTailAndSize(list2);

?

/* If different tail nodes, then there’s no intersection.

oa
oe

if (result1.tail

nf

g

return

18

ii

!= result2.tail)

*/

{

null;

}

412

ES

/* Set pointers to the start of each linked list.

14

LinkedListNode shorter =

15

LinkedListNode

longer =

resultl.size <
result1.size

<

*/

result2.size
result2.size

?
?

list1
list2

:
:

list2;
list1;

1&
i?

/* Advance the pointer for the longer linked list by difference in lengths.

18

longer = getKthNode(longer, Math.abs(result1.size -

As;
2g

/* Move both pointers until you have a collision.

2i

while (shorter

!= longer)

{

shorter = shorter.next;
longer = longer.next;

,
/* Return either one.

*/

return longer;

222

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

*/

result2.size));

*/

Solutions to Chapter 2 | Linked Lists
3@

class

Result {

ehe

public LinkedListNode tail;

#2

public int size;

Sip)

public Result(LinkedListNode tail, int size) {

34

this.tail = tail;

35

this.size = size;

36
37

}
}

38

38

Result getTailAndSize(LinkedListNode

48

if

(list == null)

list)

{

return null;

Al
A2

int

43

LinkedListNode current = list;

44

while

= 1;

(current.next

!= null)

{

sizet+;

45
AS

current

A?

=

current.next;

}

48
43

size

return new Result(current,

size);

}

58

51

LinkedListNode getKthNode(LinkedListNode head,

s2

LinkedListNode current = head;

53

while (k > @ && current

54.

{

{

current = current.next;

55

k--;

56

}

5?

58

!= null)

int k)

return

current;

}

This algorithm takes O(A +

B) time, where A and B are the lengths of the two linked lists. It takes O( 1)

additional space.

2.8

Loop Detection: Given a circular linked list, implement an algorithm that returns the node at the

beginning of the loop.
DEFINITION

Circular linked list: A (corrupt) linked list in which a node's next pointer points to an earlier node, so
as to make a loop in the linked list.
EXAMPLE

Input:

A -> B -> C -> D ->

Output:

Cc

E

->
CI[the
same
Cas earlier]

pg 95
SOLUTION

This is a modification of a classic interview problem: detect if a linked list has a loop. Let's apply the Pattern
Matching approach.

Part 1: Detect If Linked List Has A Loop

An easy way to detect if a linked list has a loop is through the FastRunner / SlowRunner approach.

FastRunner moves two steps at a time, while SlowRunner moves one step. Much like two cars racing
around a track at different steps, they must eventually meet.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

223

Solutions to Chapter 2 | Linked Lists
An astute reader may wonder if FastRunner might “hop over” SlowRunner completely, without
ever colliding. That's not possible. Suppose that FastRunner did hop over SlowRunner, such that
SlowRunner is at spot 1 and FastRunner is at spot i

be atspoti

-

+

1.in the previous step, SLowRunner would

1 andFastRunner would at spot ((i + 1)

-

2),orspoti

-

1.That is, they would

have collided.

Part 2: When Do They Collide?

Let’s assume that the linked list has a “non-looped’ part of size k.
if we apply our algorithm from part 1, when will FastRunner and SlowRunner collide?
We know that for every p steps that SlowRunner takes, FastRunner has taken 2p steps. Therefore, when
SlowRunner enters the looped portion after k steps, FastRunner has taken 2k steps total and must be
2k

-

ksteps, ork steps, into the looped portion. Since k might be much larger than the loop length, we

should actually write this asmod(k,

LOOP_STZE) steps, which we will denote as K.

At each subsequent step, FastRunner and SlowRunner get either one step farther away or one step
closer, depending on your perspective. That is, because we are in a circle, when A moves q steps away from
B, it is also moving q steps closer to B.
So now we know the following facts:

1. SlowRunner is 0 steps into the loop.
2.

FastRunner is K steps into the loop.

3. SlowRunner is K steps behind FastRunner.
4. FastRunner is LOOP_SIZE

5.

-

K steps behind SlowRunner.

FastRunner catches up to SlLowRunnerat a

rate of 1 step per unit of time.

So, when do they meet? Well, if FastRunner is LOOP_SIZE

- K steps behind SlowRunner, and

FastRunner catches up at a rate of 1 step per unit of time, then they meet after LOOP_STZE

- K steps.

At this point, they will be K steps before the head of the loop. Let’s call this point ColLlisionSpot.

OO

n1 and n2 will meet here,

three nodes from start of loop

\

54

—

Part 3: How Do You Find The Start of the Loop?

We now know that Col lisionSpot is K nodes before the start of the loop. BecauseK = mod(k, LOOP_
SIZE) (or, in other words,k = K + M *

LOOP_SIZE, for any integer M), it is also correct to say that it is

k nodes from the loop start. For example, if node N is 2 nodes into a 5 node loop, it is also correct to say that
it is 7, 12, or even 397 nodes into the loop.

Therefore, both CollisionSpot and LinkedListHead are k nodes from the start of the loop.

224

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 2 | Linked Lists
Now, if we keep one pointer at Col lisionSpot and move the other one to LinkedListHead, they will
each be k nodes from LoopStart. Moving the two pointers at the same speed will cause them to collide
again—this time after k steps, at which point they will both be at LoopStart. All we have to dois return
this node.

Part 4: Putting it All Together
To summarize, we move FastPointer twice as fast as SlowPointer. When SlowPointer enters

the loop, after k nodes, FastPointer is k nodes into the loop. This means that FastPointer and
SlowPointer are LOOP_SIZE

-

k nodes away from each other.

Next, if FastPointer moves two nodes for each node that SlowPointer moves, they move one node

closer to each other on each turn. Therefore, they will meet after LOOP_SIZE

-

k turns. Both will be k

nodes from the front of the loop.
The head of the linked list is also k nodes from the front of the loop. So, if
we keep one pointer where it is,
and move the other pointer to the head of the linked list, then they will meet at the front of the loop.
Our algorithm is derived directly from parts 1, 2 and 3.
1. Create two pointers, FastPointer and SlowPointer.
2. Move FastPointer at arate of2 steps and SlowPointer at a rate of1 step.
3. When they collide, move SlowPointer to LinkedListHead. Keep FastPointer where it is.
4. Move SlowPointer and FastPointer at a rate of one step. Return the new collision point.
The code belowimplements this algorithm.
1

LinkedListNode FindBeginning(LinkedListNode head)

2

LinkedListNode slow = head;

3

LinkedListNode fast = head;

{

4

5

/* Find meeting point.

6

while

(fast

This will be

!= null && fast.next

Zi

slow = slow.next;

8

fast = fast.next.next;

9

if

1e

(slow == fast)

LOOP_SIZE

!= null)

-

k steps

into the linked list.

*/

{

{ // Collision

break;

11

}

12

}

dias

14

/* Error check -

no meeting point,

15

if (fast == null

||

16

and therefore no loop */

fast.next == null) {

return null;

17

}

18

19

/* Move slow to Head.

22

*

Loop Start.

21

Slow = head;

22

while

23

(slow

Slow =

24

Keep fast at Meeting Point.

If they move

!= fast)

at the

same

pace,

Each are k steps from the

they must meet

at

Loop Start.

*/

{

slow.next;

fast = fast.next;

25

}

26

2?

/* Both now point to the start of the loop.

28

return fast;

29

*/

}

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

225

Solutions to Chapter 2 | Linked Lists

226

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Stacks and Queues

3.1

Three in One: Describe how you could use a single array to implement three stacks.

pg 98
SOLUTION

Like many problems, this one somewhat depends on how well we'd like to support these stacks. if we're

okay with simply allocating a fixed amount of space for each stack, we can do that. This may mean though
that one stack runs out of space, while the others are nearly empty.
Alternatively, we can be flexible in our space allocation, but this significantly increases the complexity of
the problem.
Approach 1: Fixed Division

We can divide the array in three equal parts and allow the individual stack to grow in that limited space.
Note: We will use the notation “[” to mean inclusive of an end point and “(“ to mean exclusive of an end
point.

-

Forstack 1, we will use [0, View

- For stack 2, we willuse [% 5 2%, ).
-

Forstack 3, we will use [ 2% , n).

The code for this solution is below.
1

class FixedMultiStack {

2

private int numberOfStacks = 3;

3

private int stackCapacity;

A

private int[]

values;

5

private int[]

sizes;

6

?

public FixedMultiStack(int stackSize)

{

g

stackCapacity =

9

values = new int{stackSize * numberOfStacks
];

1@
11

stackSize;

sizes = new int[numberOfStacks
];
}

12

se

/*

14

public void push(int stackNum,

Push value onto stack.

*/

int value) throws

FullStackException {

15

/* Check that we have

space for the next element */

16

if (isFull(stackNum))

{

1?

throw new FullStackException()
;

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

227

Solutions to Chapter 3 | Stacks and Queues
18

ii

19

20

/* Increment stack pointer and then update top value.

31

sizes[stackNum]++;

22

*/

values[ indexOfTop(stackNum)] = value;

23

i

24

25

/* Pop item from top stack.

26
2?

public int pop(int stackNum) {
if (isEmpty(stackNum)) {

28

*/

throw new EmptyStackException();

29

}

30

31

int topIndex = indexOfTop(stackNum)
;

32

int value = values[topIndex];

SS

values[topIndex]

34

sizes[stackNum]--;

ENS

return value;

36

= 0;

// Get top

// Clear

// Shrink

}

37

38

/* Return top element.

39

public int peek(int stackNum) {

40

*/

if (isEmpty(stackNum))

41

{

throw new EmptyStackException();

42

}

43

return values[indexOfTop(stackNum)
J;

44.

}

45

A6

/* Return if stack is empty.

47

public boolean isEmpty(int stackNum)

48

return sizes[stackNum]

49

*/

{

== 9;

}

58

51

/* Return if stack is full.

52

public boolean isFull(int stackNum) {

oe

return sizes[stackNum]

54

*/

== stackCapacity;

}

55

56

/*

57

private int indexOfTop(int stackNum) {

Returns

index of the top of the stack.

58

int offset = stackNum * stackCapacity;

598

int size = sizes[stackNum];

60

return offset + size

1;

}

61

62

-

*/

}

If we had additional information about the expected usages of the stacks, then we could modify this algorithm accordingly. For example, if
we expected Stack 1 to have many more elements than Stack 2, we could
allocate more space to Stack 1 and less space to Stack 2.
Approach 2: Flexible Divisions

A second approach is to allow the stack blocks to be flexible in size. When one stack exceeds its initial
Capacity, we grow the allowable capacity and shift elements as necessary.
We will also design our array to be circular, such that the final stack may start at the end of the array and
wrap around to the beginning.

228

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 3 | Stacks and Queues
Please note that the code for this solution is far more complex than would be appropriate for an interview.

You could be responsible for pseudocode, or perhaps the code of individual components, but the entire
implementation would be far too much work.
1
2

public class MultiStack {
/* StackInfo is a simple class that holds a set of data about each stack.

3

* does not hold the actual items

4

* just a bunch of individual variables,

5

* much.

6

It

in the stack. We could have done this with
but that’s messy and doesn’t gain us

*/

private class StackInfo {

7

public

8

public StackInfo(int start,

9

int

start,

size,

capacity;

int capacity)

{

this.start = start;

19

this.capacity = capacity;

11

}

12

13

/* Check if an index on the full

14

array is within the stack boundaries.

* stack can wrap around to the start of the array.

15

public boolean isWithinStackCapacity(int index)

16

/* If outside of bounds of array,

WA

if (index < @

18

||

The

*/

{

return false.

*/

index >= values.length) {

return false;

19

}

26

21

/* If index wraps around,

22

int contiguousIndex = index < start

23

int end

24

return

25

=

adjust it.

*/
? index + values.length

:

index;

start + capacity;

start <= contiguousIndex && contiguousIndex < end;

}

26

27

public int lastCapacityIndex() {

28

return adjustIndex(start + capacity

28

-

1);

}

36

31

public int lastElementIndex()

32

{

return adjustIndex(start + size

33

- 1);

}

34

35

public boolean isFull()

36

public boolean isEmpty()

37

{ return size == capacity;
{

return size == 6;

}

}

}

38

==

private StackInfo[]

49

private int!] values;

info;

ay

42

public MultiStack(int numberOfStacks,

43

/* Create metadata

for

all the

int defaultSize)

stacks.

44

info = new StackInfo[numberOf
Stacks ] ;

45

for

46
4?

i < numberOfStacks;

i++)

{

= new StackInfo(defaultSize * i,

defaultSize)
;

}

48
49

(int i = @;

info[i]

{

*/

values = new int[numberOfStacks * defaultSize];
}

Se

51
52

53

/* Push value onto stack num,
* exception

if all

stacks

shifting/expanding stacks as necessary. Throws

are full.

public void push(int stackNum,

*/

int value)

throws FullStackException {

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

229

Solutions to Chapter 3 | Stacks and Queues
54

if (allStacksAreFull()) {

55

throw new FullStackException()
;

56

}

57

58

/* If this stack is full, expand it.

5S

Stackinfo stack = info[stackNum]
;

68

if (stack.isFull())

64

expand(stackNum)
;

62

*/

{

}

63

64

/* Find the index of the top element in the array + 1,

65
66

stack.size++;

67

values[stack.lastElementIndex()]

68

and increment the

* stack pointer */

= value;

}

6s

70

/* Remove value from stack. */

7a

public int pop(int stackNum) throws Exception {

72

StackInfo stack =

73

if (stack.isEmpty())

74

info[stackNum]
;

{

throw new EmptyStackException();

75

}

£6

77

/* Remove last element.

78

int value = values[stack.lastElementIndex()
];

79

values[stack.lastElementIndex()] = @;

88

Stack.size--;

81

82

*/

// Clear item

// Shrink size

return value;

}

83

B4

/* Get top element of stack.*/

85

public int peek(int stackNum) {

86

StackInfo stack = info[stackNum]
;

87

return values[stack.lastElementIndex()
];

8&8

}

89

/* Shift items in stack over by one element.

26

* we’1l end

up shrinking the

SL

*

then we’1l

92

capacity,

If we have available capacity, then

stack by one element.

If we don’t

need to shift the next stack over too.

private void shift(int stackNum)

have

available

*/

{

o2

System.out.printin(“/// Shifting “ + stackNum);

94

StackInfo stack = info[stackNum]
;

G5

96

/* If this stack is at its full capacity,

97

98

*

stack over by one element.

if (stack.size >= stack.capacity)

59

int nextStack =

100

shift (nextStack) ;

102

102

This

then you need to move the next

stack can

now claim the freed

{

(stackNum + 1) % info.length;

stack.capacity++;

//

claim index that next

stack

}

193

104

/* Shift all elements

185

int index = stack.lastCapacityIndex();

in stack over by one.

106

while (stack.isWithinStackCapacity(index)) {

497

values[index]

188

index = previous Index(index) ;

199

230

*/

= values[previous
Index (index) ];

}

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

lost

index.

*/

Solutions to Chapter 3 | Stacks and Queues
118

111

/* Adjust stack data.

112

values[stack.start] = @;

*/

113

stack.start = nextIndex(stack.start); // move start

414

Stack.capacity--;

// Clear item

// Shrink capacity

115}
116

11?

/* Expand stack by shifting over other stacks */

118

private void expand(int stackNum) {

119

shift((stackNum + 1) % info.length);

126

info[stackNum].capacity++;

i. de
122

123

/* Returns the number of items actually present in stack.

124

public int numberOfElements()

125

int size = 6;

126

for (StackInfo sd

127

info)

{

size += sd.size;

422

}

123
136

:

*/

{

return size;
=}

131

132

/* Returns true is all the stacks are full.

133.

public boolean allStacksAreFull() {

134.

135

return numberOfElements()

*/

== values.length;

i

136

137

/* Adjust index to be within the range of @ -> length -

138

private int adjustIndex(int index) {

1.

*/

139

/* Java’s mod operator can return neg values.

1428

* return -1, not 4. We actually want the value to be 4 (since we’re wrapping

144

* around the index).

For example,

(-11 % 5) will

*/

142

int max = values.length;

143

return

((index % max) + max) % max;

144}
145

146

/* Get index after this index, adjusted for wrap around.

147

private int nextIndex(int index)

148

return adjustIndex(index + 1);

*/

{

was}
156

151

/* Get index before this index,

152.

private int previousIndex(int

153

adjusted for wrap around.

index)

*/

{

return adjustIndex(index - 1);

154}

155 }

In problems like this, it’s important to focus on writing clean, maintainable code. You should use additional
classes, as we did with StackInfo, and pull chunks of code into separate methods. Of course, this advice
applies to the “real world” as well.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

231

Solutions to Chapter 3 | Stacks and Queues
3.2.

Stack Min: How would you design a stack which, in addition to puSh and pop, has a function min
which returns the minimum element? Push, pop and min should all operate inO(1) time.

pg 98
SOLUTION
The thing with minimums is that they don’t change very often. They only change when a smaller element
is added.
One solution is to have just a single int value, minValue, that’s

a member of the Stack class. When

minValue is popped from the stack, we search through the stack to find the new minimum. Unfortunately,

this would break the constraint that push and pop operate in 0(1) time.
To further understand this question, let’s walk through it with a short example:
push(5); // stack is {5},

min is 5

push(6);

// stack is {6,

5}, min is 5

push(3);

// stack is {3,

6,

push(7);

// stack is {7,

3, 6,

5},

min is 3
5},

pop();

// pops 7.

stack is

{3,

6,

pop();

// pops

stack is

{6,

5}.

3.

min is 3
5},

min is 3

min is 5.

Observe how once the stack goes back to a prior state ({6,

5}), the minimum also goes back to its prior

state (5). This leads us to our second solution.

If we kept track of the minimum at each state, we would be able to easily know the minimum. We can do
this by having each node record what the minimum beneathitself is. Then, to find the min, you just look at
what the top element thinks is the min.
When you push an element onto the stack, the element.
is given the current minimum. It sets its “local

min” to be the min.

4

public class StackWithMin extends Stack<NodeWithMin> {

2

public void

push(int value)

{

3

int newMin = Math.min(value,

a

super.push(new NodeWithMin(value,

>

min());
newMin));

}

6

7

public int min()

8

{

if (this.isEmpty())

3

{

return Integer.MAX_VALUE;

18
i

return peek().min;

12

}

13

14

// Error value

} else {

}

}

a5

ie

class

NodeWithMin {

1?

public int value;

18

public int min;

is

public NodeWithMin(int v,

28
21

this.min = min;

22

23

int min){

value = v;
}

}

There's just one issue with this: if we have a large stack, we waste a lot of space by keeping track of the min

for every single element. Can we do better?

232

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 3 | Stacks and Queues
We can (maybe) do a bit better than this by using an additional stack which keeps track of the mins.
i

public class StackwWithMin2 extends

2

Stack<Integer>

3

public StackWithMin2() {

4

Stack<Integer> {

s2;

s2 = new Stack<Integer>();

5}
6

7

public void push(int value)
{

8

if (value <= min()) {

9

s2.push(value)
;

18

}

11

super .push( value) ;
}SW

12.
13

14.
at

public Integer pop() {
int value = super.pop();

16

if (value == min()) {

17

S2.pop();

18

}

18

return

2e

value;

}

21

22

public int min() {

23

if (s2.isEmpty()) {

24

return

25

} else {

26

return s2.peek();

27

}

28

23

Integer .MAX_VALUE;

}

}

Why might this be more space efficient? Suppose we had a very large stack and the first element inserted
happened to be the minimum. In the first solution, we would be keeping n integers, where n is the size of
the stack. In the second solution though, westore just a few pieces of data: a second stack with one element
and the members within this stack.

3.3

Stack of Plates: Imagine a

(literal) stack of plates. If the stack gets too high, it might topple.

Therefore, in real life, we would likely start a new stack when the previous stack exceeds some

threshold. Implement a data structure SetOfStacks that mimics this. SetOFStacks should be
composed of several stacks and should create a new stack once the previous one exceeds capacity.

SetOfStacks.push() and SetOfStacks.pop() should behave identically to a single stack
(that is, pop(_) should return the same values as it would if there were just a single stack).
FOLLOW UP

Implement a function popAt(int

index) which performs a pop operation on a specific sub-

stack.

pg 99
SOLUTION
In this problem, we've been told what our data structure should look like:
1

class SetOfStacks {

2

ArrayList<Stack>

3

public void push(int v)

stacks

= new ArrayList<Stack>();

{

...

}

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com| 6th Edition

233

Solutions to Chapter 3 | Stacks and Queues
4

public int

pop()

{

...

}

5S
We know that push() should behave identically to a single stack, which means that we need push() to
call push() on the last stack in the array of stacks. We have to be a bit careful here though: if the last stack
is at capacity, we need to create a new stack. Our code should look something like this:
i

void push(int v)

{

2

Stack last = getLastStack();

3

if (last

4

!= null && !last.isFull())

{ // add to last stack

last .push(v);

5

} else { // must create new stack

6

Stack stack = new Stack(capacity)
;

7

stack.push(v)
;

3

stacks.add(stack);

3

i

1@

}

What should pop() do? It should behave similarly to push() in that it should operate on the last stack. If
the last stack is empty (after popping), then we should remove the stack from the list of stacks.

i

int pop() {

2

Stack last = getLastStack();

3

if (last == null) throw new EmptyStackException();

A

int v = last.pop();

Es

if (last.size == @) stacks.remove(stacks.size()

6

return v3;

- 1);

FY}
Follow Up: Implement popAt(int index)
This is a bit trickier to implement, but we can imagine a “rollover” system. If we pop an element from stack
1, we need to remove the bottom of stack2 and push it onto stack 1. We then need to rollover from stack 3
to stack 2, stack 4 to stack 3, etc.

You could make an argument that, rather than “rolling over,” we should be okay with some stacks not
being at full capacity. This would improve the time complexity (by a fair amount, with a large number of
elements), but it might get us into tricky situations later on if someone assumes that all stacks (other than

the last) operate at full capacity. There’s no “right answer” here; you should discuss this trade-off with your
interviewer.
i

public class

SetOfStacks {

2

ArrayList<Stack>

3

public int capacity;

A

public SetOfStacks(int

5

stacks = new ArrayList<Stack>();
capacity)

{

this.capacity = capacity;

6

i

z

g

public Stack getLastStack()

=)

{

if (stacks.size() == @) return null;

18

4

return stacks.get(stacks.size()

-

1);

}

1?

i3

public void push(int v) { /* see earlier code */ }

14

public int pop() { /* see earlier code */ }

is

public boolean

16

47
12

234

isEmpty()

{

Stack last = getLastStack();

return last == null

||

last.isEmpty();

}

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 3 | Stacks and Queues
1S

28

public int popAt(int index) {

21

return leftShift(index, true);

22

}

23

24

public int leftShift(int index,

boolean removeTop)

28

Stack stack = stacks.get(index)
;

26

int removed_item;

27

if (removeTop)

28

else removed_item = stack.removeBottom();

23

if

removed_item = stack.pop();

(stack.isEmpty())

{

38

stacks .remove (index) ;

31

} else if (stacks.size()

32

{

false);

stack. push(v) ;

34

}

35

return removed_item;

}

36
37

> index + 1)

int v = leftShift(index + 1,

33

{

}

38

39

public class Stack {

48

private int capacity;

441

public Node top,

42

public int

bottom;

size = Q@;

A3

44

public Stack(int capacity)

{ this.capacity = capacity;

45

public boolean isFull()

return capacity == size;

{

}

}

4S

af

public void join(Node above,

48
49

58

Node below)

{

if (below

!= null)

below.above = above;

if

!=

above.below = below;

(above

null)

}

51

52

public boolean push(int v)

5s

if (size >= capacity)

{

return false;

54

sizet+t+;

55

Node n = new Node(v);

56

if (size == 1) bottom = n;

57

join(n,

58

top =n;

return true;

59

6

top);

}

61

62

public int pop() {

63

Node t = top;

64

top = top.below;

65

size--;

66

67

return t.value;

}

6&3

69

public boolean isEmpty()

78

return size = =0;

71

{

}

72

73
74

public int removeBottom() {
Node b = bottom;

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

235

Solutions to Chapter 3 | Stacks and Queues
ES

bottom = bottom. above;

7&

if (bottom

FF

Size--;

78

return

79
ss

!= null) bottom.below = null;

b.value;

}
}

This problem is not conceptually that tough, but it requires a lot of code to implement it fully. Your interviewer would not ask you to inplement the entire code.

A good strategy on problems like this is to separate code into other methods, like a leftShift method
that popAt can call. This will make your code cleaner and give you the opportunity to lay down the skel-

eton of the code before dealing with some ofthe details.

3.4

Queue via Stacks: Implement

aMyQueue class which implements a queue using two stacks.

pg 99
SOLUTION

Since the major difference between a queue and a stack is the order (first-in first-out vs. last-in first-out), we

know that we need to modify peek() and pop( ) to go in reverse order. We can use our second stack to
reverse the order of the elements (by popping s1 and pushing the elements on to $2). In such an imple-

mentation, on each peek() and pop() operation, we would pop everything from s1 onto s2, perform
the peek / pop operation, and then push everything back.
This will work, but if two pop / peeks are performed back-to-back, we're needlessly moving elements. We
can implement a“lazy” approach where we let the elements sit in S2 until we absolutely must reverse the
elements.

In this approach, stackNewest has the newest elements on top and stackOldest has the oldest

elements on top. When we dequeue an element, we want to remove the oldest element first, and so we
dequeue from stackOldest. If stackOldest is empty, then we want to transfer all elements from
stackNewest into this stack in reverse order. To insert an element, we push onto stackNewest, since it
has the newest elements on top.

The code below implements this algorithm.
4

public class MyQueue<T> {

2

Stack<T> stackNewest,

stackOldest;

3

4.

public MyQueue() {

5

stackNewest = new Stack<T>();

6

stackOldest = new Stack<T>();

?

}

%

9

public int

18

return

di

size()

{

stackNewest.size() + stackOldest.size();

}

yD

13

public void add(T value)

{

4

/* Push onto stackNewest,

AN

stackNewest.push(value);

16

which

always

has the newest elements on top */

}

ALY

18

19

236

/* Move elements

* we

from stackNewest into stackOldest.

can do operations on stackOldest.

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

*/

This is

usually done so that

Solutions to Chapter 3 | Stacks and Queues
20

private void

21

if

22.

shiftStacks()

{

(stackOldest.isEmpty())

while

23

{

(!stackNewest.isEmpty())

{

stackOldest.push(stackNewest.pop());

24

}

25

}

26

}

2?
23

public T peek()

29
38

{

shiftStacks(): // Ensure stackOldest has the current elements
return stackOldest.peek(); // retrieve the oldest item.
}

34
32

33

public T remove()

34

35

return stackOldest.pop(); // pop the oldest item.

36

37

{

shiftStacks(); // Ensure stackOldest has the current elements
}

}

During your actual interview, you may find that you forget the exact API calls. Don’t stress too much if that
happens to you. Most interviewers are okay with your asking for them to refresh your memory on little

details. They’re much more concerned with your big picture understanding.

3.5

Sort Stack: Write a program to sort a stack such that the smallest items are on the top. You can use
an additional temporary stack, but you may not copy the elements into any other data structure

(such as an array). The stack supports the following operations: push, pop, peek, and isEmpty.

pg 99
SOLUTION

One approach is to implement a rudimentary sorting algorithm. We search through the entire stack to find
the minimum element and then push that onto a new stack. Then, we find the new minimum element
and push that. This will actually require a total of three stacks: $1 is the original stack, $2 is the final sorted
stack, and s3 acts as a buffer during our searching of $1. To search $1 for each minimum, we need to pop

elements from s1 and push them onto the buffer, s3.
Unfortunately, this requires two additional stacks, and we can only use one. Can we do better? Yes.
Rather than searching for the minimum repeatedly, we can sort $1 by inserting each element from $1 in
order into S2. How would this work?
imagine we have the following stacks, where S2 is “sorted” and S11 is not:

5
10

3

7

1

When we pop 5 from s1, we need to find the right place in s2 to insert this number. In this case, the correct
place is on S2 just above 3. How do we get it there? We can do this by popping 5 from s1 and holding it
in a temporary variable. Then, we move 12 and 8 over to $1 (by popping them from s2 and pushing them
onto $1) and then push 5 onto s2.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

237

Solutions to Chapter 3 | Stacks and Queues

Step 2

Step 1

g

12

16 | 3
7

1e | 3
7

1

12 | 5

->

=

~

=a
=

1

Note that 8 and 12 are still in s1—and that's okay! Wejust repeat the same steps for those two numbers as
we did for 5, each time popping off the top of s1 and putting it into the “right place”
on $2. (Of course, since

8 and 12 were moved from S2 to $1 precisely because they were larger than 5, the “right place” for these
elements will be right on top of 5. We won't need to muckaround with $2’s other elements, and the inside
of the belowwhile loop will not be run when tmp is 8 or 12.)
4

void sort(Stack<Integer> s)

2

Stack<Integer>

&

while(!s.isEmpty())

{

r = new Stack<Integer>();

{

4

/* Insert each element in s in sorted order into r.

5

int tmp = s.pop();

§

while(!r.isEmpty()

7

s.push(r.pop());

g

&& r.peek()

> tmp)

*/

{

}

9

r.push(tmp)
;

16

}

at

i2

/* Copy the elements

from r back into s.

a3

while (!r.isEmpty())

{

14

s.push(r.pop());

Aes,
16

*/

}
+

This algorithm is O(N?) time and O(N) space.
If we were allowed to use unlimited stacks, we could implement a modified quicksort or mergesort.
With the mergesort solution, we would create two extra stacks and divide the stack into two parts. We

would recursively sort each stack, and then merge them back together in sorted order into the original
stack. Note that this would require the creation of two additional stacks per level of recursion.
With the quicksort solution, we would create two additional stacks and divide the stack into the two stacks

based on a pivot element. The two stacks would be recursively sorted, and then merged back together
into the original stack. Like the earlier solution, this one involves creating two additional stacks per level of
recursion.

238

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 3 | Stacks and Queues
3.6

Animal Shelter: An animal shelter, which holds only dogs and cats, operates on a strictly “first in, first

out” basis. People must adopt either the “oldest” (based on arrival time) of all animals at the shelter,
or they can select whether they would prefer a dog or a cat (and will receive the oldest animal of
that type). They cannot select which specific animal they would like. Create the data structures to

maintain this system and implement operations such as enqueue, dequeueAny, dequeueDog,
and dequeueCat.
You may use the built-in LinkedList data structure.

pg 99
SOLUTION

We could explore a variety of solutions to this problem. For instance, we could maintain a single queue.

This would make dequeueAny easy, but dequeueDog and dequeueCat would require iteration through

the queue to find the first dog or cat. This would increase the complexity of the solution and decrease the
efficiency.

An alternative approach that is simple, clean and efficient is to simply use separate queues for dogs and
cats, and to place them within a wrapper class called AnimalQueue.
We then store some sort of timestamp

to mark when each animal was enqueued. When we call dequeueAny, we peek at the heads of both the
dog and cat queue and return the oldest.
i

abstract class Animal {

2

private int order;

3

protected String name;

4

public Animal(String n)

5

public void setOrder(int ord)

6

public int getOrder()

{

name = n;

}

{ order = ord;

{ return order;

}

}

7

&

/* Compare orders of animals to return the older item.

2

public boolean isOlderThan(Animal a) {

18

return this.order < a.getOrder();

41
12

*/

}
}

13

44

class AnimalQueue {

15

LinkedList<Dog> dogs

16

LinkedList<Cat>

1?

private

= new LinkedList<Dog>();

cats = new LinkedList<Cat>();

int order = @;

//

acts

as timestamp

18

18%

public void enqueue(Animal a) {

2a

/* Order is used as

al

a

sort of timestamp,

* order of a dog to a

22

a.setOrder(order)
;

23

order++;

cat.

so that we

can compare the

insertion

*/

24

ae

if

26

else if (a

27

(a

instanceof Dog)

dogs.addLast((Dog)

instanceof Cat)

a);

cats.addLast((Cat)a);

}

28

ae

public Animal dequeueAny()

39

/*

34

*

32

if

33

34
36

value.

cat

queues,

and

pop the queue with the oldest

*/

(dogs.size()
return

== @)

{

dequeueCats();

} else if (cats.size()

35

{

Look at tops of dog and

== 0)

{

return dequeueDogs();
}

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

239

Solutions to Chapter 3 | Stacks and Queues
37

38

Dog dog = dogs.peek();

39

Cat cat = cats.peek();

AG

if (dog.isOlderThan(cat)) {

41

return dequeueDogs
() ;

4&2

} else {

43

return dequeueCats();

AA

}

4s

}

4&

a7

public Dog dequeueDogs()

4&

return dogs.poll();

48

{

}

58

51

public Cat dequeueCats() {

Se

return

0
54

cats.poll();

}
}

Ses

56

public class Dog extends Animal {

iy

public Dog(String n)

{

super(n);

}

58}
5s

6@

public

61
62

class Cat extends Animal {

public Cat(String n)

{

super(n);

}

}

It is important that Dog and Cat both inherit from an Animal class since dequeueAny
( ) needs to be able
to support returning both Dog and Cat objects.

If we wanted, order could be a true timestamp with the actual date and time. The advantage of this is that
we wouldn't have to set and maintain the numerical order. If we somehow wound up with two animals with
the same timestamp, then (by definition) we don't have an older animal and we could return either one.

240

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Trees and Graphs

4.1

Route Between Nodes: Given a directed graph, design an algorithm to find out whether there is a
route between two nodes.
pg 109

SOLUTION

This problem can be solved by just simple graph traversal, such as depth-first search or breadth-first search.
We start with one of the two nodes and, during traversal, check if the other node is found. We should mark
any node found in the course of the algorithm as “already visited” to avoid cycles and repetition of the
nodes.

The code below provides an iterative implementation of breadth-first search.
1

enum State { Unvisited,

Visited,

Visiting;

boolean search(Graph g,

Node start,

}

é
3
4

if

(start == end)

Node end)

{

return true;

5

6

// operates as Queue

?

LinkedList<Node> q = new LinkedList<Node>();

8

9

for (Node u

126

:

g.getNodes())

{

u.state = State.Unvisited;

ii

}

12

start.state = State.Visiting;

13

q.add(start)
;

14

Node u;

15

while (!q.isEmpty())

{

16

u = q.removeFirst();

1?

if (u

18

for

15

(Node v

if

28

dequeue()

:

u.getAdjacent())

{

(v.state == State.Unvisited)

if (v == end)

21

return

22

}

23

else

{

{

true;

{

v.state = State.Visiting;

24

q.add(v)
;

25

}

26

}

27

}

28

293

// i.e.,

!= null) {

u.state = State.Visited;

}

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

241

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
}

38

31
3

return false;
a

it may be worth discussing with your interviewer the tradeoffs between breadth-first search and depth-first
search for this and other problems. For example, depth-first search is a bit simpler to implement since it can
be done with simple recursion. Breadth-first search can also be useful to find the shortest path, whereas
depth-first search may traverse one adjacent node very deeply before ever going onto the immediate
neighbors.

4.2

Minimal Tree: Given a sorted (increasing order) array with unique integer elements, write an

algorithm to create a binary search tree with minimal height.
pg 109

SOLUTION

To create a tree of minimal height, we need to match the number ofnodes in the left subtree to the number

of nodes in the right subtree as much as possible. This means that we want the root to be the middle of the
array, since this would mean that half the elements would be less than the root and half would be greater
than it.

We proceed with constructing our tree in a similar fashion. The middle of each subsection of the array
becomes the root of the node. The left half of the array will become our left subtree, and the right half of
the array will become the right subtree.

One way to implement this is to use a simple root. insertNode(int

v) method which inserts the

value v through a recursive process that starts with the root node. This will indeed construct a tree with

minimal height but it will not do so very efficiently. Each insertion will require traversing the tree, giving a

total cost of O(N log N) tothe tree.
Alternatively, we can cut out the extra traversals by recursively using the createMinimalBST method.
This method is passed just a subsection of the array and returns the root ofa minimal tree for that array.
The algorithm is as follows:

1. Insert into the tree the middle element of the array.
2. Insert (into the left subtree) the left subarray elements.
3. Insert (into the right subtree) the right subarray elements.
4.

Recurse.

The code below implements this algorithm.
TreeNode createMinimalBST(int array[])

4

return

2

createMinimalBST(array,

@,

{

array.length -

1);

}

3
4

5

TreeNode createMinimalBST(int arr[],
if (end < start)

6
?

return

}

8

int start,

int end) {

{

null;

g

int mid = (start + end)

19

TreeNode n = new TreeNode(arr[mid]);

Lt

n.left = createMinimalBST(arr,

start, mid - 1);

42

n.right = createMinimalBST(arr,

mid + 1,

ats

return n;

242

/ 2;

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

end);

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
14

}

Although this code does not seem especially complex, it can be very easy to make little off-by-one errors.
Be sure to test these parts of the code very thoroughly.

4.3

List of Depths: Given a binary tree, design an algorithm which creates a linked list of all the nodes
at each depth (e.g., if you have a tree with depth D, you'll have D linked lists).
pg 109

SOLUTION

Though we might think at first glance that this problem requires a level-by-level traversal, this isn’t actually
necessary. We can traverse the graph any way that we'd like, provided we know which level we're on as we
do so.

We can implement a simple modification of the pre-order traversal algorithm, where we pass inlevel +
1 to the next recursive call. The code below provides an implementation using depth-first search.
i

void createLevelLinkedList(TreeNode root,

y)

ArrayList<LinkedList<TreeNode>>

lists,

int level) {

2

if (root == null)

return; // base case

4

5

LinkedList<TreeNode>

6

if (lists.size() == level) { // Level not contained in list

list = null;

7

list = new LinkedList<TreeNode>();

8

/* Levels are always traversed in order.
we must

if this is the first time we’ve

* visited

128

* therefore safely add the level at the end. */

11

level i,

So,

9

have seen levels @ through i

-

1.

We can

lists.add(list)
;

12

} else {

13

list = lists.get(level);

14

415

list.add(root);

16

createLevelLinkedList(root.left,

a?

createLevelLinkedList(root.right,

ig

lists,
lists,

level + 1);
level + 1);

}

19

2@

ArrayList<LinkedList<TreeNode>>

createLevelLinkedList(TreeNode root)

21

ArrayList<LinkedList<TreeNode>>

22

createLevelLinkedList(root,

23

return

24

{

lists = new ArrayList<LinkedList<TreeNode>>()
;

lists,

@);

lists;

}

Alternatively, we can also implement a modification of breadth-first search. With this implementation, we
want to iterate through the root first, then level 2, then level 3, and so on.
With each level i, we will have already fully visited all nodes on level i

-

1.This means that to get which

nodes are on level i, we can simply look at all children of the nodes of leveli

-

1.

The code below implements this algorithm.
L

ArrayList<LinkedList<TreeNode>>

createLevelLinkedList(TreeNode root)

{

ye

ArrayList<LinkedList<TreeNode>> result = new ArrayList<LinkedList<TreeNode>>();

3

/* “Visit” the root */

A

LinkedList<TreeNode> current = new LinkedList<TreeNode>()
;

5

if

6
?

(root

!= null)

{

current.add(root)
;

i

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

243

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
8

3)

while (current.size() > 0) {

18

result.add(current); // Add previous level

11

LinkedList<TreeNode> parents = current;

42

current = new LinkedList<TreeNode>();

:

for (TreeNode parent

:

parents) {

14

/* Visit the children */

15

if (parent.left

16

// Go to next level

!= null)

{

current .add(parent. left) ;

1?

}

18

if (parent.right

15

!= null) {

current .add(parent.right) ;

20

}

21

}

22

}

23

return result;

24

}

One might ask which of these solutions is more efficient. Both run inO(N) time, but what about the space
efficiency? At first, we might want to claim that the second solution is more space efficient.

Ina sense, that’s correct. The first solution uses

O(log N) recursive calls (in a balanced tree), each of which

adds a new level to the stack. The second solution, which is iterative, does not require this extra space.

However, both solutions require returning O(N) data. The extra O(log N) space usage from the recursive
implementation is dwarfed by the O(N) data that must be returned. So while the first solution may actually
use more data, they are equally efficient when it comes to “big 0”

44

Check Balanced: Implement a function to check if a binary tree is balanced. For the purposes of
this question, a balanced tree is defined to be a tree such that the heights of the two subtrees of any

node never differ by more than one.
pgft0d

SOLUTION

In this question, we've been fortunate enough to be told exactly what balanced means: that for each node,

the two subtrees differ in height by no more than one. We can implement a solution based on this definition. We can simply recurse through the entire tree, and for each node, compute the heights of each subtree.
1

int getHeight(TreeNode root) {

2

if (root == null)

3

return Math.max(getHeight(root.left),

4

return -1;

// Base case
getHeight(root.right))

+ 1;

}

5

&

boolean isBalanced(TreeNode root)

?

if

(root == null) return true;

{
// Base case

g

9

int heightDiff = getHeight(root.left)

16

if

(Math.abs(heightDiff)

11

return false;

he

} else { // Recurse

13

&& isBalanced(root.right)
;

}

}

244

- getHeight(root.right)
;

{

return isBalanced(root.left)

14

15

> 1)

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
Although this works, it’s not very efficient. On each node, we recurse through its entire subtree. This means

that getHeight is called repeatedly on the same nodes. The algorithm isO(N log N) since each node is
“touched” once per node above it.
We need to cut out some of the calls to getHeight.

If we inspect this method, we may notice that getHeight could actually check
if the tree is balanced at
the same time as it’s checking heights. What do we do when we discover that the subtree isn’t balanced?
Just return an error code.
This improved algorithm works by checking the height of each subtree as we recurse down from the root.

On each node, we recursively get the heights of the left and right subtrees through the checkHeight
method. If the subtree is balanced, then checkHeight will return the actual height of the subtree. If the
subtree is not balanced, then checkHeight will return an error code. We will immediately break and
return an error code from the current call.

What do we use for an error code? The height ofa null tree is generally defined to be -1, so that’s
not a great idea for an error code. Instead, we'll use Integer .MIN_VALUE.

The code below implements this algorithm.
1

int checkHeight(TreeNode root)

2

if (root == null) return -1;

{

3

4

int leftHeight = checkHeight(root.left);

5

if (leftHeight == Integer.MIN VALUE)

return Integer.MIN VALUE; // Pass error up

5

7

int rightHeight = checkHeight(root.right);

8

if (rightHeight == Integer.MIN_VALUE)

return Integer.MIN VALUE; // Pass error up

s

1s

int heightDiff = leftHeight

11

if (Math.abs(heightDiff)

12

1)

return Integer.MIN_ VALUE;

rightHeight;
{

// Found error

-> pass it back

} else {

13
14

return Math.max(leftHeight,

15
16

>

rightHeight)

+ 1;

}
}

1?

18

boolean isBalanced(TreeNode root)

19
2a

return

checkHeight(root)

{

!= Integer.MIN_VALUE;

}

This code runs in O(N) time and O(H) space, where H is the height of the tree.

4.5

Validate BST: Implement a function to check if a binary tree is a binary search tree.
pg 110

SOLUTION

We can implement this solution in two different ways. The first leverages the in-order traversal, and the
second builds off the property that left <= current <

right.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com| 6th Edition

245

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
Solution #1: In-Order Traversal
Our first thought might be to do an in-order traversal, copy the elements to an array, and then check to see
if the array is sorted. This solution takes up a bit of extra memory, but it works—mostly.
The only problem is that it can’t handle duplicate values in the tree properly. For example, the algorithm
cannot distinguish between the two trees below (one of which is invalid) since they have the same in-order
traversal.

Valid BST

26)

Invalid BST

20)

20)

20)

However, if we assume that the tree cannot have duplicate values, then this approach works. The pseudocode for this method looks something like:
1

int index = @;

2

void copyBST(TreeNode root,

3

if (root == null)

4

copyBST(root.left,

5

array[index]

=

array);

root.data;

6

index++;

a

copyBST(root.right,

&

int[{] array) {

return;

array);

}

g

18

boolean checkBST(TreeNode root) {

11

int[] array = new int[root.size];

12

copyBST(root,

13

for (int i = 1;

14

array);
i < array.length;

i++)

{

if (array[i] <= array[i - 1]) return false;

15

16

return

true;

}

17

Note that it is necessary to keep track ofthe logical “end” of the array, since it would be allocated to hold all
the elements.

When we examine this solution, we find that the array is not actually necessary. We never use it other than
to compare an element to the previous element. So why not just track the last element we saw and compare
it as we go?

The code below impfements this algorithm.
1

Integer last_printed = null;

2

boolean checkBST(TreeNode n)

3

if (n == null)

{

return true;

4

S)

// Check / recurse left

6

if (!checkBST(n.left))

return false;

4

8

// Check current

9

if (last_printed

19

!= null && n.data <= last_printed) {

return false;

21

+

12

last_printed

=

n.data;

13

14

246

// Check /

recurse right

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
IVS

if (!checkBST(n.right)) return false;

16
17

ae.

return true;

// All good!

}

We've used an Integer instead of int so that we can know when Last_printed has been set toa

value.

if you don't like the use of static variables, then you can tweak this code to use a wrapper class for the
integer, as shown below.
1

class WrapInt {

2

public

int value;

ay
Or, if you’re implementing this in C++ or another language that supports passing integers by reference,
then you can simply do that.
Solution #2: The Min / Max Solution
In the second solution, we leverage the definition of the binary search tree.
What does it mean for a tree to be a binary search tree? We know that it must, of course, satisfy the condition

left.data <= current.data <

right.data for each node, but this isn’t quite sufficient. Consider

the following small tree:

Gel)
25)
Although each node is bigger than its left node and smaller than its right node, this is clearly not a binary
search tree since 25 is in the wrong place.

More precisely, the condition is that al! left nodes must be less than or equal to the current node, which
must be less than all the right nodes.
Using this thought, we can approach the problem by passing down the min and max values. As we iterate
through the tree, we verify against progressively narrower ranges.

Consider the following sample tree:

We start witha range of (min = NULL, max = NULL), which the root obviously meets. (NULL indicates
that there is no min or max.) We then branch left, checking that these nodes are within the range (min =
NULL,

max =

2). Then, we branch right, checking that the nodes are within the range (min =

20,

max = NULL).

We proceed through the tree with this approach. When we branch left, the max gets updated. When we
branch right, the min gets updated. If anything fails these checks, we stop and return false.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

247

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
The time complexity for this solution is O(N), where N is the number of nodes in the tree. We can prove that
this is the best we can do, since any algorithm must touch all N nodes.

Due to the use of recursion, the space complexity isO(log N) ona balanced tree. There are up to O(log
N) recursive calls on the stack since we may recurse up to the depth of the tree.
The recursive code for this is as follows:
1

boolean checkBST(TreeNode n)

2

return checkBST(n,

null,

{

null);

5
4

5

boolean checkBST(TreeNode n,

6

ace Cn t=) nw
Ly

7

return true;

Integer min, Integer max)

{

ef

8

9

if ((min != null && n.data <= min)

1°

||

(max != null && n.data > max)) {

||

!checkBST(n.right,

return false;

11

}

12

13

if (!checkBST(n.left, min,

14
15

n.data, max)) {

}

16

17

n.data)

return false;
return true;

}

Remember that in recursive algorithms, you should always make sure that your base cases, as well as your
null cases, are well handled.

4.6

Successor: Write an algorithm to find the "next" node (i.e., in-order successor) of a given node in a
binary search tree. You may assume that each node has a link to its parent.
pg ito

SOLUTION

Recall that an in-order traversal traverses the left subtree, then the current node, then the right subtree. To
approach this problem, we need to think very, very carefully about what happens.
Let’s suppose we have a hypothetical node. We know that the order goes left subtree, then current side,
then right subtree. So, the next node we visit should be on the right side.

But which node on the right subtree? It should be the first node we'd visit if we were doing an in-order

traversal of that subtree. This means that it should be the leftmost node on the right subtree. Easy enough!
But what if the node doesn’t have a right subtree? This is where it gets a bit trickier.
If anode n doesn't have a right subtree, then we are done traversing n’s subtree. We need to pick up where
we left off with n’s parent, which we'll call q.
Ifn was to the left of g, then the next node we should traverse should be q (again, since left -> current
->

right).

ifn were to the right of q, then we have fully traversed q's subtree as well. We need to traverse upwards from
gq until we find a node x that we have not fully traversed. How do we know that we have not fully traversed
a node x? We know we have hit this case when we move froma left node to its parent.
The left node is fully
traversed, but its parent is not.

248

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter
4 | Trees and Graphs
The pseudocode looks like this:
1

Node

2

inorderSucc(Node n)

3

return leftmost child of right subtree

4

} else {

5

while (n is a right child of n.parent)

6

n = n.parent;

ui

}

8

return n.parent;

9
16

{

if (n has a right subtree) {

{

// Go up
// Parent has not been traversed

i
}

But wait—what if we traverse all the way up the tree before finding a left child? This will happen only when
we hit the very end of the in-order traversal. That is, if we’re already on the far right of the tree, then there is
no in-order successor. We should return null.
The code below implements this algorithm (and properly handles the null case).
1

TreeNode

2

inorderSucc(TreeNode

if (n == null)

n)

{

return null;

3
A

/*

5

if (n.right

6

Found

right children

->

return leftmost node of right subtree.

*/

!= null) {

return leftMostChild(n.right)
;

7

} else {

8

TreeNode q = n;

8

TreeNode x = q.parent;

16

// Go up

until we’re on left

11

while

!= null && x.left

12

(x

instead of right

!=q)

{

q=*xX;

13

X

14

= X.parent;

}

15

return

16

x;

}

17}
18

18

TreeNode leftMostChild(TreeNode n)

28

if

21

return null;

22

}

23

while

24

(n.left

!= null)

{

n = n. left;

25

}

26

return

27

{

(n == null) {

n;

}

This is not the most algorithmically complex problem in the world, but it can be tricky to code perfectly. Jn
a problem like this, it’s useful to sketch out pseudocode to carefully outline the different cases.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

249

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
4.7

Build Order: You are given a list of projects and a list of dependencies (which is a list of pairs of

projects, where the second project is dependent on the first project). All of a project’s dependencies
must be built before the project is. Find a build order that will allow the projects to be built. If there
is no valid build order, return an error.
EXAMPLE
Input:

projects:

a,

dependencies:
Output:
f, e,

a,

b,

c,

(a,
b,

d,

d,

e,

d),

(f,

Ff

b),

(b,

d),

(f,

a),

(d,

c)

Cc
pg 110

SOLUTION

Visualizing the information as a graph probably works best. Be careful with the direction of the arrows. In
the graph below, an arrow from d to g means that d must be compiled before g. Youcan also draw them
in the opposite direction, but you need to consistent and clear about what you mean, Let's draw a fresh

©)
In drawing this example (which is not the example from the problem description), | looked for a few things.

»

|wanted the nodes labeled somewhat randomly. If| had instead put a at the top, with b and c as children, then d and e, it could be misleading.
The alphabetical order would match the compile order.

«

|wanted a graph with multiple parts/components, since a connected graph is a bit ofa special case.

| wanted a graph where a node links to a node that cannot immediately follow it. For example, f links to
a but a cannot immediately follow it (since b and c must come before a and after #).
+

| wanteda larger graph since | need to figure out the pattern.

*

|wanted nodes with multiple dependencies.

Now that we have a good example, let’s get started with an algorithm.
Solution #1

Where do we start? Are there any nodes that we can definitely compile immediately?

Yes. Nodes with no incoming edges can be built immediately since they don't depend on anything. Let’s
add all such nodes to the build order. In the earlier example, this means we have an order of f, d (or d, f).
Once we've done that, it’s irrelevant that some nodes are dependent on d and f since d and f have already
been built. We can reflect this new state by removing d and f’s outgoing edges.
build order:

250

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

f,

d

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs

©)

&)

©

6

©)
Next, we know that c, b, and g are free to build since they have no incoming edges. Let's build those and
then remove their outgoing edges.
build order:

f,

d,

c,

b,

g

Project a can be built next, so let's do that and remove its outgoing edges. This leaves just e. We build that
next, giving us a complete build order.
build order:

f,

d,

c,

b,

g,

a,

e

Did this algorithm work, or did wejust get lucky? Let's think about the logic.
1.

We first added the nodes with no incoming edges. If the set of projects can be built, there must be some
“first“ project, and that project can't have any dependencies. If a project has no dependencies (incoming
edges), then we certainly can’t break anything by building it first.
We removed ali outgoing edges from these roots. This is reasonable. Once those root projects were built,
it doesn't matter if another project depends on them.
After that, we found the nodes that now have no incoming edges. Using the same logic from steps 1 and
2, it's okay if we build these. Now wejust repeat the same steps: find the nodes with no dependencies,
add them to the build order, remove their outgoing edges, and repeat.

What if there are nodes remaining, but all have dependencies (incoming edges)? This means there’s no
way to build the system. We should return an error.

The implementation follows this approach very closely.
Initialization and setup:
1.

Build a graph where each project is a node and its outgoing edges represent the projects that depend

on it. That is, ifA has an edge to B (A -> B), it means B has a dependency on A and therefore A must be
built before B. Each node alsotracks the number of incoming edges.

Initialize a buildOrder array. Once we determine a project's build order, we add it to the array. We also
continue to iterate through the array, using a toBeProcessed pointer to point to the next nade to be
fully processed.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

251

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
3. Find all the nodes with zero incoming edges and add those to a buildOrder array. Set a
toBeProcessed
pointer to
the beginning of the array.
Repeat until
1,

toBeProcessed is at the end of the buildOrder:

Read node at toBeProcessed.
»

lfnode is nul], then all remaining nodes have a dependency and we have detected a cycle.

2.
Foreach
child
of node:
»

Decrement
child.dependencies
(the
number of incoming edges).

»

lH
child.dependencies
is zero,
add child to end of buildOrder.

3. Increment toBeProcessed.

ee

/*

NW

The code below implements
this algorithm.
Project[]

Find a correct build order.

projects,

dy

Graph graph = buildGraph(projects,

String[][] dependencies) {

dependencies)
;

Nour
CO wl

tf

return orderProjects(graph.getNodes());

}
/* Build the graph,

adding the edge

* is listed in “build order”.

(a,

b)

if b is dependent on a. Assumes a pair

The pair (a,

b)

* depends on a and a must be built before b.

29

10

*/

findBuildOrder(String[]

Graph buildGraph(String[]

projects,

11

Graph graph = new Graph();

12

for (String project

13

:

String[][{]

in dependencies indicates that b
*/

dependencies)

{

projects) {

graph.createNode(project)
;

14

}

15

16

for (String[] dependency :

ml?

dependencies)

{

String first = dependency[@];

18

String second = dependency[1];

19

graph.addEdge(first,

29

second);

}

21

22
23

return graph;
}

24

25

/* Return a list of the projects a correct build order.*/

26

Project[]

a7

orderProjects(ArrayList<Project> projects) {

Project[] order = new Project[projects.size()
];

28

29

/* Add “roots” to the build order first.*/

30

int endOfList = addNonDependent(order,

projects,

9);

31
32

int toBeProcessed =

33

while

34

@;

(toBeProcessed < order.length)

{

Project current = order[toBeProcessed
];

35

36

/* We have a circular dependency since there are no remaining projects with

37

38

*

39
40

zero dependencies.

if (current == null)
return

*/

{

null;

}

4l

252

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
42

/* Remove myself as a

43

ArrayList<Project> children = current.getChildren();

44

for (Project child

45

:

dependency.

*/

children) {

child.decrementDependencies();

46

}

A?

48

/* Add children that have no one depending on them.

AS)

endOfList = addNonDependent(order,

*/

children, endOfList)
;

toBeProcessed++;

58

}

51
52

53

54

return order;

}

55

56

/* A helper function to insert projects with zero dependencies into the order

S57

58

* array,

starting at index offset.

int addNonDependent(Project[]

59

for (Project project

62

projects)

order[offset]

int offset)

{

{

if (project.getNumberDependencies()

61

== @)

{

= project;

offset++;

62
63

}

64

}

65

return offset;

66

:

*/

order, ArrayList<Project> projects,

}

67

68

public class Graph {

68

private ArrayList<Project> nodes = new ArrayList<Project>();

78

private HashMap<String,

Project> map = new HashMap<String,

Project>();

71

Za

public

73

Project getOrCreateNode(String name)

if (tmap.containsKey(name))

74

Project

75

nodes .add(node) ;

76

node = new Project(name)
;

map.put(name,

77

{

{

node)
;

}

78

78

return map.get(name)
;

88

}

81

82

public void addEdge(String startName,

String endName)

83

Project start = getOrCreateNode(startName)
;

84

Project end = getOrCreateNode(endName)
;

85

{

start.addNeighbor
(end) ;

86

}

8?

88

public ArrayList<Project> getNodes()

{ return nodes;

}

89}
98

81

public class Project {

92

private ArrayList<Project> children = new ArrayList<Project>();

93

private HashMap<String,

o4

private String name;

95

private int dependencies

Project> map = new HashMap<String,

Project>();

= @;

96

OF

public Project(String n) { name =n;

}

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

253

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
98

89

public void addNeighbor(Project node)

100

if

101

children. add(node)
;

102

map.put(node.getName(),

103

node. incrementDependencies();

104

{

(!map.containsKey(node.getName()))

{

node);

}

105}
106

187

public void incrementDependencies() { dependencies++;

}

108

public void decrementDependencies()

}

{ dependencies--;

109

116

public String getName()

111

public ArrayList<Project> getChildren()

{

return name;

112

public int getNumberDependencies()

}
{

return

children;

{ return dependencies;

}

}

413 }

This solution takes O(P + D) time, where P is the number of projects and D is the number of dependency
pairs.

Note: You might recognize this as the topological sort algorithm on page 632. We've rederived

this from scratch. Most people won't know this algorithm and it's reasonable for an interviewer
to expect you to be able to derive it.

Solution #2

Alternatively, we can use depth-first search (DFS) to find the build path.

:

|

ene)

ef
@)

©
Suppose we picked an arbitrary node (say b) and performed a depth-first search on it. When we get to the
end of a path and can't go any further (which will happen at h and e), we know that those terminating
nodes can be the last projects to be built. No projects depend on them.
DFS(b)

// Step 1

DFS(h)

// Step 2

build order =

...,

h

// Step 3

DFS(a)

// Step 4

DFS(e)
build order =

// Step 5
...,

e,

h

// Step 6
// Step 7+

Now, consider what happens at node a when we return from the DFS of e. We know a’s children need to
appear after a in the build order. So, once we return from searching a's children (and therefore they have
been added), we can choose to add a to the front of the build order.

254

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
Once we return from a, and complete the DFS of b’s other children, then everything that must appear after
b is in the list. Add b to the front.
// Step 1

DFS(b)
DFS(h)

// Step 2

build order = ...,

h

// Step 3

DFS(a)

// Step 4

DFS(e)

// Step 5

build order =

...,

e,

h

// Step 6

build order = ..., a, e, h
DFS(e)

// Step 7

-> return

// Step 8

build order = ...,

b,

a, e, h

// Step 9

Let’s mark these nodes as having been built too, just in case someone else needs to build them.

Now what? We can start with any old node again, doing a DFS on it and then adding the node to the front

of the build queue when the DFS is completed.
DFS(d)
DFS(g)
build order =
build order =

...,

...,

d,

g,
g,

b,
b,

a,
a,

e,
e,

h
h

DFS(f)

DFS(c)
build order =
build order = f,

...,
c,

d,

c,

d,

g,

b,

a,

g,

b,

a,

e,

h

e,

h

In an algorithm like this, we should think about the issue of cycles. There is no possible build order if there
is a cycle. But still, we don’t want to get stuck in an infinite loop just because there’s no possible solution.
A cycle will happen if, while doing a DFS on a node, we run back into the same path. What we need therefore is a signal that indicatesI'm still processing this node, so if you see the node again, we have a problem.”

What we can do for this is to mark each node asa”partial”(or”is visiting”) state just before we start
the DFS on it. If we see any node whose state is partial, then we know we have a problem. When we're
done with this node’s DFS, we need to update the state.
We also need a state to indicate “I've already processed/built this node” so we don't re-build the node. Our

state therefore can have three options: COMPLETED, PARTIAL, and BLANK.

The code below implements this algorithm.
1

Stack<Project> findBuildOrder(String[]

2

Graph graph = buildGraph(projects,

projects,

3

return orderProjects
(graph. getNodes());

String[][]

dependencies)

{

dependencies)
;

ap

CrackingTheCodingIlnterview.com | 6th Edition

255

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
5

&

Stack<Project> orderProjects(ArrayList<Project>

4

Stack<Project> stack = new Stack<Project>();

8

for

2

(Project project

if

18

projects)

{

{

(project.getState()

== Project.State.BLANK)

if (!doDFS(project,

stack))

{

{

return null;

ii
12

}

13

}
}

14
15

16

:

projects)

return stack;

}

a7

18

boolean doDFS(Project project, Stack<Project> stack)

19

if (project.getState()

28

return

24

false;

== Project.State.PARTIAL)

{

{

// Cycle

}

22

23

if

(project.getState()

==

Project.State.BLANK)

{

24

project.setState(Project.State.PARTIAL)
;

25

ArrayList<Project> children = project.getChildren();

26

for

a7

(Project child

:

if (!doDFS(child,

28

children)

stack))

{

{

return false;

29

}

38

}

au

project.setState(Project.State.COMPLETE)
;

32

stack.push(project)
;

33

}

34

return true;

35

}

36

37

/* Same as

38

Graph buildGraph(String[] projects,

before */

39

public class Graph {}

String[][] dependencies)

{...}

49

41

/* Essentially equivalent to earlier solution, with state info added and

42

43

* dependency count removed.

*/

public class Project {

44

public enum State {COMPLETE,

45

private State

46

public State getState()

47

public void

48

/*

43

PARTIAL,

BLANK};

state = State.BLANK;

{

return state;

setState(State st)

Duplicate code removed

{

}

state = st;

}

for brevity */

}

Like the earlier algorithm, this solution is O(P+D) time, where P is the number of projects and D is the
number of dependency pairs.
By the way, this problem is called topological sort: linearly ordering the vertices in a graph such that for

every edge (a,

256

b),a appears before b in the linear order.

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
4.8

First Common Ancestor: Design an algorithm and write code to find the first common ancestor

of two nodes in a binary tree. Avoid storing additional nodes in a data structure. NOTE: This is not
necessarily a binary search tree.

pg 110
SOLUTION

If this were a binary search tree, we could modify the find operation for the two nodes and see where the
paths diverge. Unfortunately, this is not a binary search tree, so we must try other approaches.
Let’s assume we're looking for the common ancestor of nodes p and q. One question to ask here is if each
node in our tree has a link to its parents.
Solution #1: With Links to Parents

if each node has a link to its parent, we could trace p and q’s paths up until theyintersect.
This is essentially
the same problem as question 2.7 which find the intersection of two linked
lists.
The
“linked list” in this case

is the path from each node up to the root. (Review this solution on page 221.)
1

TreeNode commonAncestor(TreeNode p,

2

int delta = depth(p)

TreeNode q)

- depth(q);

3

TreeNode first = delta > @

4

TreeNode second = delta

5

second = goUpBy(second, Math.abs(delta));

> ©

?q:
? p

{

// get difference in depths
p;
:

q;

// get shallower node
// get deeper node

// move deeper node up

6

7

/* Find where paths

8

while (first

g

first

10

!= null && second

!= null) {

=

second.parent;

}

12

13°

*/

= first.parent;

second

‘lat

intersect.

!= second && first

return first == null

||

second == null

?

null

:

first;

}

14

15

TreeNode goUpBy(TreeNode node,

16

while (delta > @ && node

uy

node = node.parent;

18

delta--;

13

{

{

}

28

21

int delta)

!= null)

return node;

}

22

22

int depth(TreeNode node)

24

int

25

while (node

26

!= null)

{

node = node.parent;

2?

depth
;

28

}

2%
28

{

depth = @;

return depth;
}

This approach will take O(d) time, where d is the depth of the deeper node.

Solution #2: With Links to Parents (Better Worst-Case Runtime)
Similar to the earlier approach, we could trace p’s path upwards and check if any of the nodes cover q.

The first node that covers q (we already know that every node on this path will cover p) must be the first
common ancestor.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

257

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
Observe that we dont need to re-check the entire subtree. As we move from a node x to its parent y, all the
nodes under x have already been checked for q. Therefore, we only need to check the new nodes “uncovered”, which will be the nodes under x’s sibling.
For example, suppose were looking fOr the first common ancestor of node
When we go to p.parent

p

=

7andnode

gq

=

17.

(5), we uncover the subtree rooted at 3. We therefore need to search this

subtree for q.
Next, we go to node 10, uncovering the subtree rooted at 15. We check this subtree for node 17 and—
voila—there it is.

To implement this, we can just traverse upwards from p, storing the parent and the sibling node in
a variable. (The sibling node is always a child of parent and refers to the newly uncovered subtree.)

At each iteration, Sibling gets set to the old parent's sibling node and parent gets set to parent.
parent.

1

TreeNode commonAncestor(TreeNode root, TreeNode p, TreeNode q)

2

/* Check if either node is not

3

if (!covers(root, p)

4

in the tree,

||

!covers(root, q)) {

q))

{

p))

{

return null;

5

} else if

6

(covers(p,

return p;

7

} else

g

if

(covers(q,

return q;

9

j

10

11

/* Traverse upwards until you find a node that covers q.

12

TreeNode sibling = getSibling(p);

13

TreeNode

14

while (!covers(sibling, q)) {

15

parent

= p.parent;

sibling = getSibling(parent)
;

16

parent

17

=

parent.parent;

}

18

return parent;

+}

19
28

21

boolean covers(TreeNode root, TreeNode p)

22

if

23

if (root == p)

24

return covers(root.left, p)

25

(root == null)

{

return false;

return true;

|| covers(root.right, p);

}

2&

27

TreeNode getSibling(TreeNode node) {

28

if (node == null

29

368

return

null;

TreeNode

parent

||

node.parent == null) {

}

31
32

258

= node.parent;

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

{

or if one covers the other.

*/

*/

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
33

return parent.left == node ? parent.right

:

parent.left;

ell

This algorithm takes O(t) time, where t is the size of the subtree for the first common ancestor. In the

worst case, this will be O(n), where n is the number of nodes in the tree. We can derive this runtime by
noticing that each node in that subtree is searched once.

Solution #3: Without Links to Parents
Alternatively, you could follow a chain in which p and q are on the sameside. That is, if p and q are both on
the left of the node, branch left to look for the common ancestor. If they are both on the right, branch right
to look for the common ancestor. When p and q are no longer on the same side, you must have found the
first common ancestor.
The code below implements this approach.
1

TreeNode commonAncestor(TreeNode root,

2

/* Error

3

if (!covers(root,

4

return null;

5

-

TreeNode p,

one node is not in the tree.

p)

||

TreeNode q) {

*/

! @vers(root, q)) {

}

6

7

check

return ancestorHelper(root,

p,

q);

¥

8

9

TreeNode ancestorHelper(TreeNode root,

18

if (root == null

11

return

12

||

root == p

||

TreeNode p,

TreeNode q)

{

root == q) {

root;

}

13

14

boolean pIsOnLeft = covers(root.left,

p);

15

boolean qIsOnLeft = covers(root.left,

q);

16

if (pIsOnLeft

17

return

! = qIsOnLeft)

{ // Nodes are on different side

root;

18

}

13

TreeNode

28

return ancestorHelper(childSide,

21

childSide = pIsOnLeft

? root.left

p,

:

root.right;

q);

}

22

23

boolean covers(TreeNode root,

24

if (root == null)

25

if (root == p)

26

return covers(root.left, p)

am

TreeNode p)

{

return false;

return true;

|| covers(root.right, p);

Bi

This algorithm runs in O(n) time on a balanced tree. This is because covers is called on 2n nodes in the

first call (n nodes for the left side, and n nodes for the right side). After that, the algorithm branches left or

right, at which point covers will be called on ay, nodes, then 27, , and so on. This results in a runtime

of

O(n).

We know at this point that we cannot do better than that in terms of the asymptotic runtime since we need
to potentially look at every node in the tree. However, we may be able to improve it by a constant multiple.
Solution #4: Optimized

Although Solution #3 is optimal in its runtime, we may recognize that there is still some inefficiency in how

it operates. Specifically, covers searches all nodes under root for p and q, including the nodes in each
subtree (root. left and root. right). Then, it picks one of those subtrees and searches all of its nodes.
Each subtree is searched over and over again.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

259

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
We may recognize that we should only need to search the entire tree once to find p and q. We should then

be able to “bubble up” the findings to earlier nodes in the stack. The basic logic is the same as the earlier
solution.

We recurse through the entire tree with a function called commonAncestor(TreeNode

TreeNode p,

root,

TreeNode q). This function returns values as follows:

«

Returns p, if root’s subtree includes p (and not q).

+

Returns q, if root's subtree includes g (and not p).

+

Returns nul, if neither p nor g are in root's subtree.

«

Else, returns the common ancestor of p and q.

Finding the common ancestor of p and q in the final case is easy. When commonAncestor(n.left,

q) and commonAncestor(n. right,

p,

p, q) both returnnon-nul1 values (indicating that p and q were

found in different subtrees), then n will be the common ancestor.
The code below offers an initial solution, but it has a bug. Can you find it?
i

=/* The

2

TreeNode

below code has

a bug.

*/

commonAncestor(TreeNode

ef

if (root == null) return null;

4

if

(root == p && root == q)

root,

TreeNode

p,

TreeNode q)

{

return root;

5

&

TreeNode x = commonAncestor(root.left,

7

if

&

(x

!= null && x

!= p & x

!=q)

p,

q);

{ // Already found ancestor

return x;

9

}

16

nad

TreeNode y = commonAncestor(root.right,

42

if

13

(y

!= null && y

!= p & y

!=q)

p, q);

{ // Already found ancestor

return y;

14

}

iS

le

if

1?

(x

!= null && y

return

18

root;

!= null)

// This

} else if (root == p

19

return

28

} else {

aA

// p and q found in diff.

subtrees

common ancestor

root == q)

{

root;

return x == null

22

||

{

is the

? y

:

x3

/* return the non-null value */

}

23°

The problem with this code occurs in the case where a node is not contained in the tree. For example, look

at the following tree:

)
Suppose we callcommonAncestor(node 3,

node 5,

node 7).Ofcourse,node 7 does not exist—

and that’s where the issue will come in. The calling order looks like:
i

commonAnc(node 3,

2.

node 5,

node 7)

calls commonAnc(node 1, node S, node 7)

260

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

// --> 5

// --> null

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
3

calls commonAnc(node 5,

4

calls

node 5,

commonAnc(node 8,

node

node 7)

// -->5

5,

//

node 7)

-->

null

In other words, when we call commonAncestor on the right subtree, the code will return node5, just as

it should. The problem is that, in finding the common ancestor of p and q, the calling function can’t distinguish between the two cases:

*

Case 1:p isa child of q (or, q is a child of p)

*

Case 2:p

is in the tree and q is not (or, q is in the tree and p is not)

In either
of these cases, commonAncestor will return p. In the
firstcase, this is the correct return value, but

in the second case, the return value should be nul 1.
We somehow need to distinguish between these two cases, and this is what the code below does. This

code solves the problem by returning two values: the nodeitself and a flag indicating whether this node is
actually the common ancestor.
4%

class Result {

2

public TreeNode node;

3

public boolean

a

public Result(TreeNode n,

5

node =

6

isAncestor;
boolean isAnc)

{

n;

isAncestor = isAnc;

7
a

ii

5

18

TreeNode commonAncestor(TreeNode root,

11

Result

ae

if (r.isAncestor) {

43

return r.node;

TreeNode p,

r = commonAncestorHelper(root,

p,

TreeNode q)

{

q);

14}
16
16

return

null;

}

1?

18

18

Result

commonAncHelper(TreeNode root,

TreeNode p, TreeNode q)

{

if (root == null) return new Result(null, false);

29

22

if

22

23

(root == p && root

== q)

return new Result(root,

{

true);

}

24

25

Result

26

if (rx.isAncestor)

a?

28

rx = commonAncHelper(root.left,

return

p,

q);

{ // Found common ancestor

rx;

}

ES

3@

Result ry = commonAncHelper(root.right,

31

if

32

33

(ry.isAncestor)
return

{

//

Found

common

p,

q);

ancestor

ry;

}

34

35
36

am
38
39

Ae

if

(rx.node

!= null && ry.node

return new Result(root,

} else if (root == p ||
then this

// This is the common ancestor

root == q) {

/* If we’re currently at
* subtree,

!= null) {

true);

p or q,

and we also found one of those nodes in a

is truly an ancestor and the flag should be true.

boolean isAncestor = rx.node != null

|]

*/

ry.node != null;

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

261

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
44

return new Result(root, isAncestor);

A2

} else {

43

return new Result(rx.node!=null ? rx.node :

44,
45

ry.node, false);

}
}

Of course, as this issue only comes up when p or

is not actually in the tree, an alternative solution would

be to first search through the entire tree to make sure that both nodes exist.

4.9

BST Sequences: A binary search tree was created by traversing through an array from left to right
and inserting each element, Given a binary search tree with distinct elements, print all possible

arrays that could have led to this tree.
EXAMPLE
Input:

Output: {2,

1,

3},{2,

3,

1}
pg 110

SOLUTION

It's useful to kick off this question with a good example.

We should also think about the ordering of items in a binary search tree. Given a node, all nodes on its left
must be less than all nodes on its right. Once we reach a place without a node, we insert the new value
there.

What this means is that the very first element in our array must have been a 50 in order to create the above
tree. If it were anything else, then that value would have been the root instead.
What else can we say? Some people jump to the conclusion that everything on the left must have been
inserted before elements on the right, but that’s not actually true. In fact, the reverse is true: the order of the
left or right items doesn’t matter.

Once the 50 is inserted, all items less than 50 will be routed to the left and all items greater than 50 will be
routed to the right. The 60 or the 20 could be inserted first, and it wouldn’t matter.
Let's think about this problem recursively. If we had all arrays that could have created the subtree rooted
at 20 (call this arraySet26), and all arrays that could have created the subtree rooted at 60 (call this

arraySet6Q), how would that give us the full answer? We could just“weave’
each array from arraySet20
with each array from arraySet60—and then prepend each array with a 50.

262

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
Here's what we mean by weaving. We are merging two arrays in all possible ways, while keeping the
elements within each array in the same relative order.
arrayl:

{1,

2}

array2:

{3,

4}

weaved: {1, 2, 3, 4}, {1, 3, 2, 4}, {1, 3, 4, 2},
{3,

1,

2, 4},

{3,

1, 4, 2},

{3,

4,

1,

2}

Note that, as long as there aren’t any duplicates in the original array sets, we won't have to worry that
weaving will create duplicates.

The last piece to talk about here is how the weaving works. Let's think recursively about how to weave {1,
2,

3}and{4,

5,

6}. Whatare the subproblems?

»

Prependa1toall weavesof{2,

3}and{4,

-

Prependa4toall weavesof{1,

2,

5,

6}.

3}and{5,

6}.

To implement this, we'll store each as linked lists. This will make it easy to add and remove elements. When

we recurse, we'll push the prefixed elements down the recursion. When first or second are empty, we

add the remainder to prefix and store the result.
It works something like this:
weave(first,

second,

prefix):

weave({1, 2}, {3, 4}, {})
weave({2}, {3, 4}, {1})

weave({}, {3, 4}, {1, 2})

weave({2}, {4}, {1, 3})
weave({}, {4}, {1, 3, 2})

weave({2}, {}, {1, 3, 4})
weave({1, 2}, {4}, {3})

weave({2}, {4}, {3, 1})
weave({}, {4}, {3, 1, 2})
weave({2}, {}, {3, 1, 4})
weave({1, 2}, {}, {3, 4})

Now, let’s think through the implementation of removing, say, 1 from {1, 2} and recursing.
We need to be
careful about modifying this list, since a later recursive call (e.g., weave({1,

the 1stillin{1,

2},

{4},

{3})) mightneed

2}.

We could clone the list when we recurse, so that we only modify the recursive calls. Or, we could modify the
list, but then “revert”
the changes after we're done with recursing.

We've chosen to implement it the latter way. Since we're keeping the same reference to first, second, and
prefix the entire way down the recursive call stack, then we'll need to clone prefix just before we store
Dw
&
WN br

the complete result.
ArrayList<LinkedList<Integer>> allSequences(TreeNode

node)

{

ArrayList<LinkedList<Integer>> result = new ArrayList<LinkedList<Integer>>();
if

(node == null)

{

result .add(new LinkedList<Integer>());
return result;

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

263

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
}
LinkedList<Integer> prefix = new LinkedList<Integer>();
prefix.add(node.data)
;
/*

Recurse on

left and

right

subtrees.

*/

ArrayList<LinkedList<Integer>> leftSeq = allSequences(node.
left);
ArrayList<LinkedList<Integer>>

rightSeq = allSequences(node.right)
;

/* Weave together each list from the left and right sides.
for

(LinkedList<Integer> left

for

:

leftSeq)

(LinkedList<Integer> right

:

*/

{

rightSeq)

{

ArrayList<LinkedList<Integer>> weaved =

new ArrayList<LinkedList<Integer>>();
weaveLists(left,

right, weaved,

prefix);

result .addAll (weaved) ;

t
}
return

result;

26
}
28

/ * Weave lists

*

Pee]

* list.

3e@

31

together in all possible ways.

head from one list,

recursing,

*/

void weaveLists(LinkedList<Integer> first,
ArrayList<LinkedList<Integer>>

32

This algorithm works by removing the

and then doing the same thing with the other

33

/* One list is empty.

34

if (first.size() == @ ||

Add remainder to

LinkedList<Integer> result =

36

result.addAll(first);
result .addAll (second) ;

38

results.add(result)
;

LinkedList<Integer> prefix)

[a cloned]

{

prefix and store result.

*/

second.size() == 6) {

35

37

LinkedList<Integer> second,

results,

(LinkedList<Integer>)

prefix.clone();

return;

39

}

42

41

/* Recurse with head of first added to the prefix.

42

* first,

43

Removing the head will damage

so we’1l need to put it back where we found it afterwards.

*/

int headFirst = first.removeFirst();

44

45

prefix.addLast(headFirst)
;

46

weaveLists(first,

47

prefix.removeLast();

48

first.addFirst(headFirst)
;

second,

results,

prefix);

AS
58

/* Do the same thing with second,

54

int headSecond = second.removeFirst();

52

prefix.addLast(headSecond)
;

53

weaveLists(first,

54

prefix.removeLast();

results,

prefix);

second. addFirst (headSecond) ;

55

56

second,

damaging and then restoring the list.*/

}

Some people struggle with this problem because there are two different recursive algorithms that must be

designed and implemented. They get confused with how the algorithms should interact with each other
and they try to juggle both in their heads.
If this sounds like you, try this: trust and focus. Trust that one method does the right thing when imple-

menting an independent method, and focus on the one thing that this independent method needs to do.

264

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
Look at weaveLists. It has a specific job: to weave two lists together and return a list of all possible
weaves. The existence of all Sequences is irrelevant. Focus on the task that weaveLists has to do and
design this algorithm.

As you're implementing all Sequences (whether you do this before or after weaveLists), trust that
weaveLists will do the right thing. Don’t concern yourself with the particulars of how weaveLists
operates while implementing something that is essentially independent. Focus on what you're doing while
you're doing it.

In fact, this is good advice in general when you're confused during whiteboard coding. Have a good understanding of what a particular function should do (“okay, this function is going to returna

list of __—_—”). You

should verify that it’s really doing what you think. But when you're not dealing with that function, focus on
the one you are dealing with and trust that the others do the right thing. It's often too much to keep the
implementations of multiple algorithms straight in your head.

4.10

Check Subtree: T1 and T2 are two very large binary trees, with T1 much bigger than T2. Create an
algorithm to determine if T2 is a subtree of T1.
Atree 72 is a subtree of 71 if there exists a node n in 71 such that the subtree of n is identical to 72.

That is, if you cut off the tree at node n, the two trees would be identical.
pg 111

SOLUTION

In problems like this, it’s useful to attempt to solve the problem assuming that there is just a small amount
of data. This will give us a basic idea of
an approach that might work.
The Simple Approach

In this smaller, simpler problem, we could consider comparing string representations of traversals of each

tree. If T2 is a subtree of T1, then T2’s traversal should be a substring of T1. Is the reverse true? If so, should
we use an in-order traversal or a pre-order traversal?
An in-order traversal will definitely not work. After all, consider a scenario in which we were using binary

search trees. A binary search tree’s in-order traversal always prints out the values in sorted order. Therefore,

two binary search trees with the same values will always have the same in-order traversals, even if their
structure is different.

What about a pre-order traversal? This is a bit more promising. At least in this case we know certain things,

like the first element in the pre-order traversal is the root node. The left and right elements will follow.
Unfortunately, trees with different structures could still have the same pre-order traversal.

There’s a simple fix though. We can store NULL nodes in the pre-order traversal string as a special character,

like an ’X’ (We'll assume that the binary trees contain only integers.) The left tree would have the traversal

{3, 4, X} and the right tree will have the traversal {3, X, 4}.
Observe that, as long as we represent the NULL nodes, the pre-order traversal of a tree is unique. That is, if

two trees have the same pre-order traversal, then we know they are identical trees in values and structure.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

265

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
To see this, consider reconstructing a tree from its pre-order traversal (with NULL nodes indicated). For
example: 1, 2, 4, X, X, X, 3, X, X.
The root is 1, and its left node, 2, follows it. 2.left must be 4.4 must have two NULL nodes (since it is followed

by two Xs). 4 is complete, so we move back up to its parent, 2. 2.right is another X (NULL). 1's left subtree
is now complete, so we move to 1’s right child. We place a 3 with two NULL children there. The tree is now

complete.

This whole process was deterministic, as it will be on any other tree. A pre-order traversal always starts at

the root and, from there, the path we take is entirely defined by the traversal. Therefore, two trees are identical if they have the same pre-order traversal.
Now consider the subtree problem. If T2’s pre-order traversal is a substring of T1’s pre-order traversal, then
T2’s root element must be found inT1. If we do a pre-order traversal from this element in T1, we will follow
an identical path to T2’s traversal. TherefOre, T2 is a subtree of T1.
Implementing this is quite straightforward. We just need to construct and compare the pre-order traversals.
1

boolean

containsTree(TreeNode ti,

TreeNode t2) {

2.

StringBuilder string1l = new StringBuilder();

3

StringBuilder string2 = new StringBuilder();

4.

5

getOrderString(t1,

string1);

6

getOrderString(t2,

string2);

7

8

return

string1.indexOf(string2.toString())

!= -1;

9
19

11

void getOrderString(TreeNode node,

12

if

(node == null)

13

sb.append("X");

i4

return;

StringBuilder sb)

{

{

// Add null indicator

oe

16

sb.append(node.data +

// Add

root

1?

getOrderString(node.left,

sb);

// Add

left

getOrderString(node.right,

sb);

// Add right

18
19

"

");

}

This approach takes O(n + m) time andO(n + m) space, where n and mare the number of nodes in T1
and T2, respectively. Given millions of nodes, we might want to reduce the space complexity.
The Alternative Approach
An alternative approach is to search through the larger tree, T1. Each time a node in T1 matches the root

of T2, call matchTree. The matchTree method will compare the two subtrees to see if they are identical.
Analyzing the runtime is somewhat complex. A naive answer would be to say that it is O(nm) time, where
n is the number of nodes in T1 and mis the number of nodes in T2. While this is technically correct, a {little

more thought can produce a tighter bound.

266

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
We do not actually call matchTree on every node in T1. Rather, we call it k times, where k is the number
of occurrences of T2’s root in T1. The runtime is closer toO(n + km).
In fact, even that overstates the runtime. Even if the root were identical, we exitmatchTree when we find

a difference between T1 and T2. We therefore probably do not actually look at m nodes on each call of
matchtTree.
The code below implements this algorithm.
boolean containsTree(TreeNode t1,

1

2

if (t2 == null)

return true;

3

return subTree(t1, t2);

TreeNode t2)

{

// The empty tree is

always a subtree

}

A

5

6

boolean subTree(TreeNode r1,
if (r1 == null)

7

return false;

8

} else if

9
18

{

// big tree empty & subtree still not found.

(ri.data == r2.data && matchTree(r1,

r2))

{

return true;

}

12

return subTree(ri.left, r2)

12
13

TreeNode r2)

{

||

subTree(r1.right, r2);

Mi

14

LS

boolean matchTree(TreeNode r1,
if

16

return true;

17
18

return false;

2eo

} else if (ri.data
return false;

21

r2 == null) {

// exactly tree is empty,
!= r2.data)

therefore trees don‘t match

{

// data doesn't match

} else {

22

return matchTree(ri1.left,

DE
24
25

{

{

// nothing left in the subtree

} else if (r1 == null ||

18

TreeNode r2)

(rl == null && r2 == null)

}

r2.left)

&& matchTree(ri.right,

r2.right);

ii

When might the simple solution be better, and when might the alternative approach be better? This is a

great conversation to have with your interviewer. Here are a few thoughts on that matter:
ih.

The simple solution takes O(n + m) memory. The alternative solution takes O(log(n)

+ log(m))

memory. Remember: memory usage can be a very big deal when it comes to scalability.

The simple solution isO(n

+

m) time and the alternative solution has a worst case time of O(nm).

However, the worst case time can be deceiving; we need to look deeper than that.

. Aslightly tighter bound on the runtime, as explained earlier, isO(n + km), where k is the number of
occurrences of T2’s root in T1. Let’s suppose the node data for T1 and T2 were random numbers picked

between 0 and p. The value of k would be approximately Wy, . Why? Because each of n nodes in T1 has
a 7%» chance of equaling the root, so approximately We nodes in T1 should equal T2. root. So, let’s
sayp = 1000,n = 1000@0@andm = 100.We would do somewhere around 1,100,000 node checks

(1100000 = 1000000 + xR).
More complex mathematics and assumptions could get us an even tighter bound. We assumed in #3

above that if we call matchTree, we would end up traversing all m nodes of T2. It’s far more likely,
though, that we will find a difference very early on in the tree and will then exit early.

In summary, the alternative approach is certainly more optimal in terms of space and is likely more optimal
in terms of time as well. it all depends on what assumptions you make and whether you prioritize reducing

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

267

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
the average case runtime at the expense of the worst case runtime. This is an excellent point to make to
your interviewer.

4.11.

Random Node: You are implementing a binary search tree class from scratch, which, in addition

to insert, find, and delete, has

amethod getRandomNode() which returns a random node

from the tree. All nodes should be equally likely to be chosen. Design and implement an algorithm

for getRandomNode, and explain how you would implement the rest of the methods.
pg 111

SOLUTION
Let's draw an example.

ae)

20)

se)

We're going to explore many solutions until we get to an optimal one that works.

One thing we should realize here is that the question was phrased in a very interesting way. The interviewer
did not simply say, “Design an algorithm to return a random node from a binary tree.”
We were told that this

is

aclass that we're building from scratch. There is a reason the question was phrased that way. We probably

need access to some part of the internals of the data structure.
Option #1 [Slow & Working]

One solution is to copy all the nodes to an array and return a random element in the array. This solution will

take O(N) time and O(N) space, where N is the number of nodes in the tree.
We can guess our interviewer is probably looking for something more optimal, since this is a little too

straightforward (and should make us wonder why the interviewer gave us a binary tree, since we don't
need that information).
We should keep in mind as we develop this solution that we probably need to know something about the

internals of the tree. Otherwise, the question probably wouldn't specify that we're developing the tree Class
from scratch.
Option #2 [Slow & Working]
Returning to our original solution of copying the nodes to an array, we can explore a solution where we

maintain an array at all times that lists all the nodes in the tree. The problem is that we'll need to remove

nodes from this array as we delete them from the tree, and that will take O(N) time.
Option #3 [Slow & Working]

We could label all the nodes with an index from 1 to N and label them in binary search tree order (that
is, according to its inorder traversal). Then, when we call getRandomNode, we generate a random index

between 1 and N. If we apply the label correctly, we can use a binary search tree search to find this index.

268

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
However, this leads to a similar issue as earlier solutions. When we insert a node or a delete a node, all of the

indices might need to be updated. This can take O(N) time.
Option #4 [Fast & Not Working]
What if we knew the depth of the tree? (Since we’re building our own class, we can ensure that we know
this. It’s an easy enough piece of data to track.)
We could pick a random depth, and then traverse left/right randomly until we go to that depth. This
wouldn't actually ensure that all nodes are equally likely to be chosen though.

First, the tree doesn't necessarily have an equal number of nodes at each level. This means that nodes on
levels with fewer nodes might be more likely to be chosen than nodes ona level with more nodes.
Second, the random path we take might end up terminating before we get to the desired level. Then what?
We could just return the last node we find, but that would mean unequal probabilities at each node.
Option #5 [Fast & Not Working]
We could try just a simple approach: traverse randomly down the tree. At each node:

»

With 4 odds, we return the current node.

»

With 4 odds, we traverse left.
With 14 odds, we traverse right.

This solution, like some of the others, does not distribute the probabilities evenly across the nodes. The root

hasa 1% probability of being selected—the same as all the nodes in the left put together.
Option #6 [Fast & Working]

Rather than just continuing to brainstorm new solutions, let’s see if we can fix some of the issues in the
previous solutions. To do so, we must diagnose—deeply—the root problem in a solution.

Let’s look at Option #5. It fails because the probabilities aren't evenly distributed across the options. Can we
fix that while keeping the basic algorithm the same?
We can start with the root. With what probability should we return the root? Since we have N nodes, we

must return the root node with 1% probability. (In fact, we must return each node with oA probability.
After all, we have N nodes and each must have equal probability. The total must be 1 (100%), therefore each

must have % probability.)

We've resolved the issue with the root. Now what about the rest of the problem? With what probability
should we traverse left versus right? It's not 50/50. Even in a balanced tree, the number of nodes on each

side might not be equal. If we have more nodes on the left than the right, then we need to go left more
often.

One way to think about it is that the odds of picking something—anything—from the left must be the sum

of each individual probability. Since each node must have probability 1 , the odds of picking something
from the left must have probability LEFT_SIZE * 14, . This should therefore be the odds of going left.
Likewise, the odds of going right should be RIGHT_SIZE * ie
This means that each node must know the size of the nodes on the left and the size of the nodes on the
right. Fortunately, our interviewer has told us that we're building this tree class from scratch. It’s easy to

keep track of this size information on inserts and deletes. We can just store a $ize variable in each node.
Increment Size on inserts and decrement it on deletes.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

269

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
4

class TreeNode {

2

private int data;

3

public TreeNode left;

4

public TreeNode right;

5

private int

size = Q@;

&

i

public TreeNode(int d)

8

data

3

{

= d;

size = 1;

18

}

11

12

public TreeNode getRandomNode()

{

13

int leftSize = left == null

? @:

14

Random random = new Random();

1s

int index = random. nextint(size) ;

16

if (index < leftSize)

sly

left.size();

{

return left.getRandomNode();

18

} else if (index == leftSize)

19

{

return this;

20

} else {

21

return right.getRandomNode(
);

22

}

23

}

24

25

public void insertInOrder(int d)

26

if (d <= data)

2?

if

28

{

{

(left == null)

{

left = new TreeNode(d);

} else {

29
39

left.insertInOrder
(d) ;

31

}

32

} else {

33

if (right == null)

34

{

right = new TreeNode(d);

35

} else {

36

right.insertInOrder(d)
;

37

}

38

}

39

sizet++;

48

}

Ai

42

public int size()

{

return size;

}

43

public int data()

{ return data;

}

44,

45

public TreeNode find(int d)

46

if

47

{

{

return this;

48

} else if

43

(d <= data)

return left

58

} else if

51

{

!= null

(d > data)

return right

52

? left.find(d)

:

null;

{

!= null

? right.find(d)

:

null;

}

ss

return

null;

}

54

55

(d == data)

}

In a balanced tree, this algorithm will beO(log N), where N is the number of nodes.

270

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
Option #7 [Fast & Working]

Random number calls can be expensive. (f we'd like, we can reduce the number of random number calls
substantially.

Imagine we called getRandomNode on the tree below, and then traversed left.

SF

ae}

Ot

ORS

We traversed left because we picked a number between 0 and 5 (inclusive). When we traverse left, we again
pick a random number between 0 and 5. Why re-pick? The first number will work just fine.

But what if we went right instead? We have a number between 7 and 8 (inclusive) but we would need a

number between 0 and1 (inclusive). That's easy to fix: just subtract out LEFT_SIZE + 1.
Another way to think about what we're doing is that the initial random number call indicates which node

(1) to return, and then we're locating the ith node in an in-order traversal. Subtracting

LEFT SIZE

+

from i reflects that, when we go right, we skip over LEFT_SIZE + 1 nodes inthe in-order traversal.
1

class Tree {

2

TreeNode root

= null;

3

4

public int size()

{

return root == null

? @

:

root.size();

}

5

6

public TreeNode getRandomNode()

7

if (root == null)

{

return null;

8

9

Random random = new Random()
;

16

int i = random.nextInt(size());

11

return root.getIthNode(i)
;

12

}

13

14

public void

15
16

value)

{

{

root = new TreeNode(value)
;

} else {

17
18

root .insertInOrder
(value) ;

19

}

28
21

insertInOrder(int

if (root == null)

}
}

22
23

class

24

/*

TreeNode

{

constructor and variables

are the

same.

*/

25

26

public

TreeNode getIthNode(int i)

{

27

int leftSize = left == null ? @: left.size();

28

if (i < leftSize) {

29

38
31

32

return left.getIthNode(i)
;

} else if (i == leftSize) {
return this;

} else {

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com
| 6th Edition

| 271

1

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
33

/* Skipping over leftSize + 1 nodes,

34

return right.getithNode(i

35

-

so subtract them.

*/

(leftSize + 1));

}

36

}

3?

38

public

20

public int size()

48

void

insertInOrder(int d)

{

return size;

public TreeNode find(int d)

41

{

/*

{

/*

same */

}

}
same */

}

}

Like the previous algorithm, this algorithm takes O(log N) time in a balanced tree. We can also describe
the runtime as O(D), where D is the max depth of the tree. Note that O(D) is an accurate description of the
runtime whether
the tree is balanced or not.

4.12

Paths with Sum: You are given a binary tree in which each node contains an integer value (which

might be positive or negative). Design an algorithm to count the number of paths that sum to a
given value. The path does not need to start or end at the root or a leaf, but it must go downwards
(traveling only from parent nodes to child nodes).
pg lll

SOLUTION

Let's pick a potential sum—say, 8—and then drawa binary tree based on this. This tree intentionally has a

‘number of paths with this sum.

poe
One option is the brute force approach.
Solution #1: Brute Force

In the brute force approach, wejust look at all possible paths.
To do this, we traverse to each node. At each
node, we recursively try all paths downwards, tracking the sum as we go. As soon as we hit our target sum,
we increment the total.
1

int countPathsWithSum(TreeNode

2

if

(root == null)

return

root,

int targetSum)

{

@;

3

4

/* Count paths with sum starting from the root.

5

int pathsFromRoot = countPathsWithSumFromNode(root,

7

/* Try the nodes on the left and

8

int pathsOnLeft = countPathsWithSum(root.left,

9

int pathsOnRight = countPathsWithSum(root.right, targetSum);

right.

*/
targetSum,

@);

*/

targetSum)
;

18

dll

return pathsFromRoot + pathsOnLeft + pathsOnRight;

hai}
13

14

/* Returns the number of paths with this

272

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

sum starting from this

node.

*/

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
15

int countPathsWithSumFromNode(TreeNode node, int targetSum, int currentSum) {

16

if

(node == null)

return Q;

17
18

currentSum += node.data;

19

26

int totalPaths = 0;

21

if (currentSum == targetSum)

22

{ // Found a path from the root

totalPaths++;

23

}

24
25

totalPaths += countPathsWithSumFromNode(node.left, targetSum,

26

totalPaths += countPathswWithSumFromNode(node.right,

27

return totalPaths;

28

currentSum)
;

targetSum,

currentSum)
;

}

What is the time complexity of this algorithm?
Consider that node at depth d will be “touched” (via countPathsWithSumFromNode) by d nodes above it.

In a balanced binary tree, d will be no more than approximately log

N. TherefOre, we know that with N

nodes in the tree, countPathsWithSumF romNode will becalledO(N log N) times. The runtime is O(N log N).
We can also approach this from the other direction. At the root node, we traverseto allN - 1 nodes beneath
it (Via countPathsWithSumFromNode). At the second level (where there are two nodes), we traversetoN - 3
nodes. At the third level (where there are four nodes, plus three above those), we traverse toN

-

7 nodes.

Following this pattern, the total work is roughly:
(N -

1)

+ (N -

3)

+

(N - 7)

+

(N -

15)

+ (N -

31)

+...

+

(N -

N)

To simplify this, notice that the left side of each term is always N and the right side is one less than a power

of two. The number ofterms is the depth of the tree, which is O(log N).Forthe right side, we can ignore
the fact that it’s one less than a power of two. TherefOre, we really have this:
O(N *

[number of terms]

-

[sum of powers of two from 1 through N])

O(N log N - N)
O(N log N)

If the value of the sum of powers of two from 1 throughN

isn’t obvious to you, think about what the powers

of two look like in binary:
9001
+ 9010
+

9100

+

1000

= 1111

Therefore, the runtime isO(N log N) ina balanced tree.
In an unbalanced tree, the runtime could be much worse. Consider a tree that is just a straight line down. At
the root, we traversetoN - 1 nodes, At the next level (with just a single node), we traverse toN - 2 nodes.

At the third level, we traverse toN

-

3 nodes, and so on. This leads us to the sum of numbers between 1

and N, which is O(N?).
Solution #2: Optimized

In analyzing the last solution, we may realize that we repeat some work. Fora pathsuchas1@
3 ->

->

5

->

-2, we traverse this path (or parts of it) repeatedly. We do it when we start with node 10, then when

we go to node5 (looking at 5, then 3, then -2), then when we go to node 3, and then finally when we go to
node -2. Ideally, we'd like to reuse this work.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com
| 6th Edition | 273

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs

Cig
ww
Oa
eae
he)
Let's isolate a given path and treat it as just an array. Consider a (hypothetical, extended) path like:
10

->

5

->

1

->

2

->

-1

->

-1

->

7

->

1

->

2

What we're really saying then is: How many contiguous subsequences in this array sum to a target sum such

as 8? In other words, for each y, we're trying to find the x values below. (Or, more accurately, the number
of
x values below.)
targetSum

i

4

S

x

atm\

4
y

If each value knows its running sum (the sum of values from s through itself), then we can find this pretty

easily. We just need to leverage this simple equation: runningSum,

=

runningSum,

-

targetSum.

We then look for the values ofx where this is true.

runningSum,

runningSum,

targetSum

an as
4
ft
t+
S

4

y

Since we're just looking for the number of paths, we can use a hash table. As we iterate through the array,

build a hash table that maps from a runningSum to the number of times we've seen that sum. Then, for
each y, look up runningSum,

-

targetSum inthe hash table. The value in the hash table will tell you

the number of paths with sum tar getSum that end at y.
For example:

index:

(3)

value:

10@->5

1

sum:

10

15

2
->

3

1->2
16

18

4
->

-1

5
->

17

6

7

8

-1->7->1->2
16

23

24

26

The value of runningSum, is 24. If tar getSum is 8, then we'd look up 16 in the hash table. This would have

a value of 2 (originating from index 2 and index 5). As we can see above, indexes 3 through 7 and indexes
6 through 7 have sums of 8.

Now that we've settled the algorithm for an array, let’s review this on a tree. We take a similar approach.

We traverse through the tree using depth-first search. As we visit each node:

274

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 4 | Trees and Graphs
1. Track its runningSum.
We'll take this in as a parameter and immediately increment it by node. value.
2. LookuprunningSum - targetSum in the hash table. The value there indicates the total number. Set
totalPaths to this value.
3. If runningSum

==

targetSum, then there’s one additional path that starts at the root. increment

totalPaths.

4, Add runningSum to the hash table (incrementing the value if it’s already there).
5. Recurse left and right, counting the number of paths with sum targetSum.

6. After we're done recursing left and right, decrement the value of runningSum in the hash table. This is
essentially backing out of our work; it reverses the changes to the hash table so that other nodes don’t
use it (since we’re now done with node).

Despite the complexity of deriving this algorithm, the code to implement this is relatively simple.
1

int countPathsWithSum(TreeNode root,

3

int targetSum)

return countPathsWithSum(root, targetSum,

2

@,

{

new HashMap<Integer,

Integer>());

}

4

5

int countPathsWithSum(TreeNode node,

int targetSum,

HashMap<Integer,

6

7

if (node == null) return @;

int runningSum,

Integer> pathCount)

{

// Base case

8

5

/* Count paths with sum ending at the current node.

18

runningSum += node.data;

1i

int

We

int totalPaths = pathCount.getOrDefault(sum,

sum =

runningSum -

*/

targetSum;

@);

LS

14

/*

If runningSum equals targetSum,

45

* Add in this path.*/

16

if (runningSum == targetSum) {

1?

then one additional path starts

at

root.

totalPaths++;

18

}

18

28

/* Increment pathCount,

21

incrementHashTable(pathCount,

recurse,

then decrement pathCount.

runningSum,

1);

22

totalPaths += countPathsWithSum(node.left,

23

totalPaths += countPathsWithSum(node.right,

24

incrementHashTable(pathCount,

runningSum,

targetSum,

targetSum,

-1);

*/

// Increment pathCount
runningSum,

pathCount)
;

runningSum,

pathCount)
;

// Decrement pathCount

25

26
a

return totalPaths;
a}

28

28

void incrementHashTable(HashMap<Integer,

Integer> hashTable,

int key,

38

int newCount = hashTable.getOrDefault(key,

31

if (newCount == @) { // Remove when zero to reduce space usage

V2

{

hashTable.remove(key
) ;

33

} else {

34

hashTable.put(key,

35
36

int delta)

@) + delta;

newCount)
;

}
}

The runtime for this algorithm is O(N), where N is the number of nodes in the tree. We know it is O(N)
because we travel to each node just once, doing 0(1) work each time. In a balanced tree, the space
complexity isO( log N) due to the hash table. The space complexity can grow to O(n) in an unbalanced
tree.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

275

Solutions to Bit Manipulation

5.1

Insertion: You are given two 32-bit numbers, Nand M, and two bit positions, i and j. Write

amethod

to insert M into N such that M starts at bit j and ends at bit i. You can assume that the bits j through
i have enough space to fit all of M. That is, if M= 10011, you can assume that there are at least 5

bits between j and i. You would not, for example, have j = 3 and i = 2, because M could not fully
fit between bit 3 and bit 2.
EXAMPLE

Input:

N = 10@Q@@ee008@e0,

Output: N

=

M =

10011,

i=2,

j

= 6

10001001100
pg 115

SOLUTION

This problem can be approached in three key steps:
1.

Clear the bits j through i inN

2. Shift
M so that it lines up with bits j through i
3.

MergeMandN.

The trickiest part is Step 1. How do we Clear the bits in N? We can do this with a mask. This mask will have all

1s, except for Os in the bits j through i. We create this mask by creating the left half of the mask first, and
then the right half.
1

int

2

updateBits(int n,

int m,

int i,

int j)

{

/* Create a mask to clear bits i through j in n.

3

* should be 11100011.

4

int allOnes

= ~0;

//

For simplicity,

will

equal

EXAMPLE:

sequence

of all 1s

5

6

//

?

int left = allOnes

1s

before position j,

<<

then

@s.

left = 111090000

(j +1);

§

9

// 1’s

12

int right =

after position

((1 <<

i.

i)

-

for

@s

right

= 00000011

1);

11
12

// All

13

int mask = left

1s,

except

|

15

/*

through

16

int n_cleared

1?

int

between

i

and

j.

mask

=

11100011

right;

14

276

Clear bits

j

i then

= n & mask;

m shifted = m <<

i;

put m in there */

// Clear

bits

// Move m into

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

i = 2,

j = 4.

Result

we’11 use just 8 bits for the example.

j

through

correct

i.

position.

*/

Solutions to Chapter 5 | Bit Manipulation
18

1g
26

return n_cleared

|

mshifted;

// OR them, and we’re done!

}

In a problem like this (and many bit manipulation problems), you should make sure to thoroughly test your

code. It’s extremely easy to wind up with off-by-one errors.

5.2

Binary to String: Given a real number between @ and 1 (e.g., 0.72) that is passed in as a double,

print the binary representation. If the number cannot be represented accurately in binary with at
most 32 characters, print “ERROR”
pg 116

SOLUTION
NOTE: When otherwise ambiguous, we'll use the subscripts x, and x,, to indicate whether x is in base 2 or

base 10.

First, let’s start off by asking ourselves what a non-integer number in binary Jooks like. By analogy to a
decimal number, the binary number @. 101, would look like:

Q@.101,=1*
%4+0* Y%41*%.
To print the decimal part, we can multiply by 2 and check if 2n is greater than or equal to 1. This is essentially
“shifting”
the fractional sum. That is:

r= 20*n
210* 8.1012

1* Y4.+0* Ve Suri

Ye

1.01,
Ifr

>=

1, then we know that n had a 1 right after the decimal point. By doing this continuously, we can

check every digit.
1

String printBinary(double num)

2

if (num >= 1

3

|]

{

num <= @) {

return “ERROR”;

4}
5

6

StringBuilder binary = new StringBuilder();

?

binary .append(“.”);

8

while (num > @) {

G

/* Setting a

18

if

44

limit on length:

(binary.length()

>= 32)

32 characters */

{

return “ERROR”;

12

}

13

14

double r = num * 2;

is

if

16

(r >= 1)

{

binary.append(1);

17

18

}

num

=r

else

{

-

1;

19

binary.append(@)
;

29

num

21

=

r;

}

22

}

23

return binary.toString();

24

3}

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

277

Solutions to Chapter 5 | Bit Manipulation
Alternatively, rather than multiplying the number by two and comparing it to 1, we can compare the
number to .5, then .25, and so on. The code below demonstrates this approach.
1

String printBinary2(double num)

y

if (num >= 1

3

||

{

num <= 9) {

return “ERROR”;

4

}

5

6

StringBuilder binary = new StringBuilder();

?

double frac = 0.5;

8

binary.append(“.”’);

9

while

(num > 0) {

18

/*

11

if (binary.length()

12

Setting a limit on length:

32 characters */

> 32) {

return “ERROR”;

13

}

14

if (num >= frac)

15

{

binary.append(1);

16

num -= frac;

1?

} else {

18

binary .append(@) ;

1%

}

28

frac /= 2;

21

}

22

return binary.toString();

}

23

Both approaches are equally good; choose the one you feel most comfortable with.
Either way, you should make sure to prepare thorough test cases for this problem—and to actually run
through them in your interview.

5.3

Flip Bit to Win: You have an integer and you can flip exactly one bit from a 0 to a 1. Write code to

find the length of the longest sequence of 1s you could create.
EXAMPLE

Input:

1775

Output:

8

(or:

11611101111)

pg 116

SOLUTION

We can think about each integer as being an alternating sequence of Os and 1s. Whenever a Os sequence
has length one, we can potentially merge the adjacent 1s sequences.

Brute Force

One approach is to convert an integer into an array that reflects the lengths of the Os and 1s sequences. For

example, 11011101111 would be (reading from right to left) [0,5

4,,

1,,

3,,

1,,

2,,

21,].The

subscript reflects whether the integer corresponds to a Os sequence or a 1s sequence, but the actual solution doesn't need this. It’s a strictly alternating sequence, always starting with the Os sequence.
Once we have this, we just walk through the array. At each Os sequence, then we consider merging the

adjacent 1s sequences if the Os sequence has length 1.
1

aint longestSequence(int n) {

278

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

OwmMnA
TY BwWwN

Solutions to Chapter 5 | Bit Manipulation

1@

if

(n == -1)

return Integer.BYTES * 8;

ArrayList<Integer>

sequences = getAlternatingSequences(n)
;

return findLongestSequence(sequences)
;

}
/* Return a list of the sizes of the sequences.

number of @s

(which might be @)

The sequence starts off with the

and then alternates with the counts of each

value.
*/

ArrayList<Integer> getAlternatingSequences(int n) {

11

ArrayList<Integer> sequences = new ArrayList<Integer>();

12

13

int searchingFor = @;

14

int counter = @;

15

16

for

17

(int

if

i = 0;

((n & 1)

i < Integer.BYTES * 8;
!= searchingFor)

i++)

{

{

18

sequences.add(counter)
;

1S)

searchingFor = n&1; // Flip 1to®Oor@tol

22

counter = @;

21

}

22

counter++
;

23

n

>>>=

1;

24

iv

25

sequences.add(counter)
;

26
2?

28

return

sequences
;

}

25

36

/* Given the lengths of alternating sequences of Os and is, find the longest one

31

32

* we

can build.

*/

int findLongestSequence(ArrayList<Integer> seq)

33

{

int maxSeq = 1;

34

35

for (int i = @;

i <

seq.size();

i += 2)

36

int zerosSeq = seq.get(i);

37

int

38

int onesSeqleft = i+ 1 < seq.size()

onesSeqRight

= i

-

1

>= ©

?

{

seq.get(i

-

1)

:

@;

? seq.get(i +1)

:

9;

39
48

int thisSeq = 9;

Aq

if

42

(zerosSeq
thisSeq

43

} if

44

== 1)

{

// Can merge

= onesSeqLeft + 1 + onesSeqRight;

(zerosSeq

> 1)

{

//

Just add a zero to either side

thisSeq = 1 + Math.max(onesSeqRight,

A5

} else

46

if

(zerosSeq == @)

//

No zero,

thisSeq = Math.max(onesSeqRight,

47

}

43

maxSeq = Math.max(thisSeq,

49

{

onesSeqgLeft)
;
but take either side

onesSeqLeft)
;

maxSeq)
;

}

50
51

return maxSeq;

52
}

This is pretty good. It's O(b) time and O(b) memory, where b is the length of the sequence.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

| 279

Solutions to Chapter 5 | Bit Manipulation
Be careful with how you express the runtime. For example, if you say the runtime is O(n), what is
n? It is not correct to say that this algorithm is O(value ofthe integer). This algorithm is O(number
of bits). For this reason, when you have potential ambiguity in what n might mean, it's best just to

not use n. Then neither you nor yourinterviewer will be confused. Pick a different variable name.
We used “b*, for the number of bits. Something logical works well.

Can we do better? Recall the concept of Best Conceivable Runtime. The B.C.R. for this algorithm is 0(b)
(since we'll always have to read through the sequence), so we know we can't optimize the time. We can,
however, reduce the memory usage.
Optimal Algorithm
To reduce the space usage, note that we don't need to hang on to the length of each sequence the entire
time. We only need it long enough to compare each 1s sequence to the immediately preceding 1s sequence.

Therefore, we can just walk through the integer doing this, tracking the current 1s sequence length and the
previous 1s sequence length. When we see a Zero, update previousLength:

«

Ifthe next bit isa 1, prpeviousLength should be set to currentLength.

-

Ifthe next bit is a 0, then we can’t merge these sequences together. So, set previousLength to 0.

Update maxLength as we go.
1

int flipBit(int a)

2

/* If all 1s,

this is

3

if

return Integer.BYTES * 8;

(“a == 8)

{
already the longest sequence.

*/

4.

5

int currentLength = @;

&

int previousLength = @;

2

int maxLength = 1;

8

while

8

if

16

(a

!= 6)

((a & 1)

// We

can always

have a sequence of at least one 1

{
==1)

{ // Current bit

is

al

currentLength++;

11

} else if

((a & 1)

== 0)

{ // Current bit is a @

12

/* Update to © (if next bit is ©) or currentLength (if next bit is

15)

previousLength = (a & 2) == © ? ® : currentLength;

14

*/

currentLength = @;

15

}

16

maxLength = Math.max(previousLength + currentLength + 1,

17

a

48

>>>=

maxLength)
;

1;

}

19

2@

1).

return maxLength;

}

The runtime of this algorithm is still O(b), but we use only 0(1) additional memory.

5.4

Next Number: Given a positive integer, print the next smallest and the next largest number that

have the same number of 1 bits in their binary representation.
pg 116

SOLUTION

There are a number of ways to approach this problem, including using brute force, using bit manipulation,
and using clever arithmetic. Note that the arithmetic approach builds on the bit manipulation approach.

You'll want to understand the bit manipulation approach before going on to the arithmetic one.

280

Cracking the Coding tnterview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 5 | Bit Manipulation
:

The terminology can be confusing for this problem. We'll call getNext the bigger number and
getPrev the smaller number.

The Brute Force Approach

An easy approach is simply brute force: count the number of 1s inn, and then increment (or decrement)
until you find a number with the same number of 1s. Easy—but not terribly interesting. Can we do something a bit more optimal? Yes!
Let's start with the code for getNext, and then move onto getPrev.

Bit Manipulation Approach for Get Next Number
If we think about what the next number should be, we can observe the following. Given the number 13948,
the binary representation looks like:
sjiajejiajajelelif{ifi

3) ils el 7 le bla
We want to make this number bigger (but not too big). We also need to keep the same number of ones.

Observation: Given a number n and two bit locations i and j, suppose we flip bit i from a1 to a @, and bit
jfroma@toal.lfi

> j,thenn

will have decreased. If i <

j,thenn

will have increased.

We know the following:
1.

If we flip a zero to a one, we must flip a one to a zero.

2. When we do that, the number will be bigger if and only if the zero-to-one bit was to the left of the oneto-zero bit.

3. We want to make the number bigger, but not unnecessarily bigger. Therefore, we need to flip the rightmost zero which has ones on the right of it.

To put this in a different way, we are flipping the rightmost non-trailing zero. That is, using the above
example, the trailing zeros are in the Oth and 1st spot. The rightmost non-trailing zero is at bit 7. Let's call
this position p.
Step 1: Flip rightmost non-trailing zero
1/1/e/1

12142

11/1

101 9

With this change, we have increased the size of n. But, we also have one too many ones, and one too few
zeros. We'll need to shrink the size of our number as much as possible while keeping that in mind.

We can shrink the number by rearranging all the bits to the right of bit p such that the @s are on the left and
the 1s are on the right. As we do this, we want to replace one of the 1s with a @.
A relatively easy way of doing this is to count how many ones are to the right of p, clear all the bits from

0 until p, and then add back in c1-1 ones, Let c1 be the number of ones to the right of p and c@ be the
number of zeros to the right of p.
Let's walk through this with an example.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

281

Il

Step 2: Clear bits to the right of p. From before,c@ = 2.c1 = 5.p

~

Solutions to Chapter 5 | Bit Manipulation

1/;1/;0/;1;1;0/;1/;0;0/;0;]60;0/
@} @
i3 | 12,

|-22|

19'|

9

8

7

6

5

4

3

2

1

8

To clear these bits, we need to create a mask that is a sequence of ones, followed by p zeros. We can do this
asfollows:

a = 1 << p; // all zeros except for a 1 at position p.
b=a-

1;

// all zeros,

followed by p ones.

mask = ~b;

// all ones, followed by p zeros.

n= n & mask;

//

clears

rightmost p bits.

Or, more concisely, we do:
n & ~((1 << p)

Step 3:Addinc1

Toinsertc1

-

-

-

1).

1 ones.

1oneson the right, we do the following:

a=1 <<

(c1 -

1);

// @s with a 1 at position c1 -

1

b=a-1;

// @S with

n=n

// inserts 1s at positions @ through cl - 1

|

b;

1s at positions @ through cl

-

1

Or, more concisely:

n

|= (1 << (c1 - 1))

- 1;

We have now arrived at the smallest number bigger than n with the same number of ones.

The code for getNext is below.
1

int getNext(int

n)

{

2

/* Compute c@ and

3

int

c =n;

4

int

c@ = @;

5

int cl = Q@;

6

while (((c & 1) == @) && (c != @)) {

7

CO++;

8

C

3

cl

*/

>>= 1;

ii

16

11

while

12
13

14

((c & 1)

== 1)

{

C1++3
Cc

>>= 1;

}

15

16

/* Error:

17

18

*

return

then there is

no bigger number with the same

*/

if (c@ + cl == 31

19

20

if n == 11..1100...00,

number of 1s.

||

cO + cl == @) {

-1;

}

21

22

int p = c@+ c1;

// position of rightmost non-trailing zero

23

24

25

n | =(1 << p); // Flip rightmost non-trailing zero
nN & ~((1 << p)

- 1);

// Clear all bits to the right of p

n [= (1 << (cl - 1)) - 1; // Insert (c1-1) ones on the right.

282

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 5 | Bit Manipulation

27

return n;

28 }
Bit Manipulation Approach for Get Previous Number

To implement getPrev, we follow a very similar approach.

1. Compute c@ and c1. Note that c1 is the number of trailing ones, and c@ is the size of the block of zeros
immediately to the left of the trailing ones.
2. Flip the rightmost non-trailing one to a Zero. This will be at positionp = cl + c®O.
3. Clear all bits to the right of bit p.
4.

Insertc1 + 1 ones immediately to the right of position p.

Note that Step 2 sets bit p to azero and Step 3 sets bits 8 through p-1 to azero.We can mergethese steps.
Let’s walk through this with an example.
cO=5.

1/;0;e;1;1;]1

r3] 42

7)

es

[01 |

|

ee

=

2.

®

=

®

C1

®

p = 7.

=)

Step 1:InitialNumber.

fais | 3

Steps 2 & 3: Clear bits @ through p.

1/e/;@e/;

1

1

1/;/0;e/;/0;0e/;0|,®8;]

80]

8

13 | 12 | 11 | 10)|

9

8

1

3)

7

6

5

&

3

2

We can do this as follows:
int a = ~@;

int

// Sequence of 1s

b=a <<

(p +1);

nN &= b;

// Sequence of 1s followed by p + 1 zeros.
//

Clears

bits @ through p.

Steps 4: Insertc1 + 1 ones immediately to the right ofposition p.

1;0;0/1

1

MS

Ore

43112,11 10/9181 7
>
Note
that
sincep =

1

1;|;0e0/;

0]

0

6151413121116.

c1 + c@,the(c1 + 1) ones will be followed by (c@

-

1) zeros.

We can do this as follows:
int a=

1

<<

int b=a-

= b <<

th

int c

(cl +1);

1;

// 8S with

1 at

position

(c1 + 1)

// @s followed by cl + 1 ones

(c@ - 1);

// c1+1 ones followed by c@-1 zeros.

n |= c¢;

The code to implement this is below.
1

int getPrev(int n)

2

int temp = n;

3

int

4

int ci = @:

5

while

6

cO = @;

(temp & 1

== 1)

{

C1l++;

?
8

{

temp >>= 1;

i

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

283

Solutions to Chapter 5 | Bit Manipulation
10

if

(temp

== @)

return

-1;

41

while (((temp & 1) == @) && (temp != @)) {

12
13

CO++;

14

temp >>= 1;

45

}

16

uy

int p = c@ + c1;

18

n & ((*@)

<<

// position of rightmost non-trailing one

(p + 1)); // clears from bit p onwards

15

20

int mask = (1 <<

21

n

|= mask <<

(c1 + 1))

-

1;

// Sequence of (c1+1) ones

(c@ - 1);

22

return n;

23

24

}

Arithmetic Approach to Get Next Number

if c@ is the numberof trailing zeros, C1 is the size of the one block immediately following, andp = c@ +

C1, we can word our solution from earlier as follows:
1. Set the pth bit to 1.
2. Set all bits following p to 8.
3. Set bits

@throughc1

-

2to1.This willbec1

-

1 total bits.

A quick and dirty way to perform steps 1 and 2 is to set the trailing zeros to 1 (giving us p trailing ones), and
then add 1. Adding one will flip all trailing ones, so we wind up witha

1 at bit p followed by p zeros. We can

perform this arithmetically.
n += 2° -

4;

// Sets trailing @s to 1,

n += 1;

//

Flips

first

giving us p trailing 1s

p 1s to @s,

and puts a1 at bit

p.

Now, to perform Step 3 arithmetically, we just do:
n t= 2% >? -

1;

// Sets trailing cl

-

1

zeros to ones.

This math reduces to:
next

=n +

(2°- 1)

+14

(2-1-1)

= fh wegen
2S ee

The best part is that, using a little bit manipulation, it’s simple to code.
1

aint getNextArith(int n)
/*

3

return n+ (1 << c@) + (1 << (c1 - 1))

4

...

{

2

same calculation for c@ and cl as before

..,

*/

- 1;

}

Arithmetic Approach to Get Previous Number

If C, is the number of trailing ones, C, is the size of the zero block immediately following, andp = c, + C,,
we can word the initial get Prev solution as follows:
1. Set the pth bit to ®
2. Set all bits following p to 1

3. Set bitsOthroughc, -

1to®.

We canimplement
this arithmetically as
follows.
For
clarity in theexample,
we willassumen = 10000011.
This makes Cc, = 2andc, = 5.

284

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 5 | Bit Manipulation
n -= 2 - 4;

// Removes trailing 1s.

n

-= 1;

// Flips trailing @s.

mn

-= 2-1.

43

//

Flips last

(c@-1)

=

- (28 = 4) Et = (2d

Sa De

=n

-

n is now 10000000.

n is now 01111111.
@s.

n

is now 01110000.

This reduces mathematically to:

next

2

-

2e?-24

4

Again, this is very easy to implement.
1

int getPrevArith(int n) {

2

/*

3

return n - (1 << c1) - (1 << (c@ - 1)) + 4;

...

same calculation for c@ and cl as

before

...

*/

4}
Whew! Don't worry, you wouldn't be expected to get all this in an interview—at least not without a lot of
help from the interviewer.

5.5

Debugger: Explain what the following code does: ((n & (n-1)) == 0).
pg 116

SOLUTION

=i

We can work backwards to solve this question.

What does it mean if A & B == 07

It means that A and B never have a 1 bit in the same place. Soifn & (n-1)

== @,thennandn-1 never

share a 1.

What does n-1 look like (as compared with n)?

Try doing subtraction by hand (in base 2 or 10). What happens?
1101011000
-

[base 2]

1

= 1101010111

593100
-

[base 2]

[base 10]

1

= 593099

[base 10]

When you subtract 1 from a number, you {ook at the least significant bit. if it’s a 1 you change it to 0, and you

are done. if it’s a zero, you must “borrow”
from a larger bit. So, you go to increasingly larger bits, changing
each bit from a 0 to a 1, until you find a 1. You flip that 1 to a 0 and you are done.
Thus, N-1 will look like n, except that n’s initial Os will be 1s inn-1, and ns least significant 1 will be a 0 in
n-1. That is:
n

abcde1eee

n-1

abcdee@111

i)

if
then

So what does n & (n-1) == 0 indicate?

n and n-1 must have no 1s in common. Given that they look like this:
if
then

n = abcde1eee
n-1

= abcde@111

abcde must be all @s, which means that n must look like this: 9001988. The value n is therefore a power
of two.

Cracking TheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

285

Solutions to Chapter 5 | Bit
Manipulation
So, we have our answer: ((n & (n-1))

5.6

== @) checks ifn is a power of 2 (or if n is 0).

Conversion: Write a function to determine the number of bits you would need to flip to convert
integer A to integer B.
EXAMPLE

input:

29 (or:

Output:

2

11101), 15 (or: @1111)

pg 16

SOLUTION

This seemingly complex problem is actually rather straightforward. To approach this, ask yourself how you
would figure out which bits in two numbers are different. Simple: with an XOR.

Each 1 in the XOR represents a bit that is different between A and B. Therefore, to check the number of bits
that are different between A and B, we simply need to count the number of bits in A*B that are 1.
1

int bitSwapRequired(int a,

2

int count = @;

3

for

4

(int

c=a%*b;

c

int b)

!=@;

{

c=c >> 1)

{

count += c & 1;

5

}

6

return count;

7

§

This code is good, but we can make it a bit better. Rather than simply shifting c repeatedly while checking
the least significant bit, we can continuously flip the least significant bit and count how long it takes c to

reach 0. The operationc = c & (c

-

1) willclear the least significant bit inc.

The code below utilizes this approach.
1

int bitSwapRequired(int a,

2

int count = @;

3

for

(int

c =a%*b;

c

int b)

!=@;

{

c= c &

(c-1))

{

count++3;

4

5

}

5

return count;

Jaya
The above code is one of those bit manipulation problems that comes up sometimes in interviews. Though
it‘’d be hard to come up with it on the spot if you've never seen it before, it is useful to remember the trick
fOr your interviews.

S.7

Pairwise Swap: Write a program to swap odd and even bits in an integer with as few instructions as

possible (e.g., bit 0 and bit 1 are swapped, bit 2 and bit 3 are swapped, and so on).
pg 116

SOLUTION

Like many of the previous problems, it’s useful to think about this problem in a different way. Operating on
individual pairs of bits would be difficult, and probably not that efficient either. So how else can we think
about this problem?

We can approach this as operating on the odds bits first, and then the even bits. Can we take a number n

and move the odd bits over by 1? Sure.
We can mask all odd bits with 10101018 in binary (which is @xAA),

286

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 5 | Bit Manipulation
then shift them right by 1 to put them in the even spots. For the even bits, we do an equivalent operation.
Finally, we merge these two values.
This takes a total of five instructions.
The code below implements this approach.
4

int swapOddEvenBits(int x)

JD
3

{

return ( ((x & @xaaaaaaaa) >>> 1) | ((x & @x55555555) << 1) );
+}

Note that we use the logical right shift, instead of the arithmetic right shift. This is because we want the sign

bit to be filled with a zero.
We've implemented the code above for 32-bit integers in Java. If you were working with 64-bit integers, you
would need to change the mask. The logic, however, would remain the same.

5.8

Draw Line: A monochrome screen is stored as a single array of bytes, allowing eight consecutive
pixels to be stored in one byte. The screen has width w, where w is divisible by 8 (that is, no byte will

be split across rows). The height of the screen, of course, can be derived from the length of the array

and the width. Implement a function that draws a horizontal line from (x1, y) to (x2, y).
The method signature should look something like:
drawLine(byte[]

screen,

int width,

int x1,

int x2,

int y)
pg 116

SOLUTION

A naive solution to the problem is straightforward: iterate in a for loop from x1 to x2, setting each pixel
along the way. But that’s hardly any fun, is it? (Nor is it very efficient)
A better solution is to recognize that if x1 and x2 are far away from each other, several full bytes will be

contained between them. These full bytes can be set one at a time by doing screen[byte_pos]
@xFF. The
1

residual start and end of the line can be set using masks.

void drawLine(byte[]

screen, int width, int x1,

2

int start_offset = x1 % 8;

3

int first_full_byte = x1 / 8;

4

if

5

6

(start_offset

!= 6)

int x2,

int y) {

{

first_full_byte++;

}

7

8

int end_offset = x2 % 8;

2

int last_full_byte = x2 / 8;

10

if (end_offset

11
12

!= 7) {

last_full_byte--;
}

13

14

// Set full bytes

15

for (int b = first _full_byte;

16
a7

screen[(width / 8)

* y + b]

b <= last_full_byte;
=

(byte)

b++) {

@xFF;

}

18

19

// Create masks for start and end of line

20

byte start_mask =

2a

byte end_mask =

(byte)

(@xFF >>

23

// Set start and end of line

24

if ((x1 / 8) == (x2 / 8)) { // x1 and x2 are in the same byte

(byte) ~(@xFF

>>

start_offset)
;
(end_offset + 1));

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

287

=

Solutions to Chapter 5 | Bit Manipulation
25

byte mask =

26

screen[{ (width / 8) * y + (x1 / 8)]

27

(byte)

(start_mask & end_mask);

28

if (start_offset

!= 0)

29

int

38

screen[byte number]

31

}

32

if

33

{

byte number = (width / 8)

(end offset

!= 7)

* y + first_full_byte -

1;

|= start_mask;

{

int byte_number = (width / 8) * y + last _full_ byte + 1;

34

screen[byte number]

35

|= end mask;

}

36
37

|= mask;

} else {

}
}

Be careful on this problem; there are a lot of “gotchas” and special cases. For example, you need to consider
the case where x1 and x2 are in the same byte. Only the most careful candidates can implement this code
bug-free.

288

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Math and Logic Puzzles

6.1

The HeavyPill: You have 20 bottles of pills. 19 bottles have 1.0 gram pills, but one has pills of weight
1.1 grams. Givena scale that provides an exact measurement, how would you find the heavy bottle?
You can only use the scale once.
pg 122

SOLUTION
Sometimes, tricky constraints can be a clue. This is the case with the constraint that we can only use the
scale once.
Because we can only use the scale once, we know something interesting: we must weigh multiple pills
at the same time. In fact, we know we must weigh pills from at least 19 bottles at the same time. Otherwise, if we skipped two or more bottles entirely, how could we distinguish between those missed bottles?
Remember that we only have one chance to use the scale.
So how can we weigh pills from more than one bottle and discover which bottle has the heavy pills? Let’s
suppose there were just two bottles, one of which had heavier pills. If we took one pill from each bottle, we

would get a weight of 2.1 grams, but we wouldn't know which bottle contributed the extra 0.1 grams. We

know we must treat the bottles differently somehow.
If we took one pill from Bottle #1 and two pills from Bottle #2, what would the scale show? It depends. If
Bottle #1 were the heavy bottle, we would get 3.1 grams. If Bottle #2 were the heavy bottle, we would get

3.2 grams. And that is the trick to this problem.
We know the “expected” weight of a bunch of pills. The difference between the expected weight and the
actual weight will indicate which bottle contributed the heavier pills, provided we select a different number
of pills from each bottle.
We can generalize this to the full solution: take one pill from Bottle #1, two pills from Bottle #2, three pills
from Bottle #3, and so on. Weigh this mix of pills. If all pills were one gram each, the scale would read 210
grams (1

+

2

+

...

+

20

=

20

*

21

/

2

=

218). Any “overage” must come from the extra 0.1

gram pills.

This formula will tell you the bottle number:

weight
210 grams
0.1 grams

So, if the set of pills weighed 211.3 grams, then Bottle #13 would have the heavy pills.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

289

Solutions to Chapter 6 | Math and Logic Puzzles
6.2.

Basketball: You have a basketball hoop and someone says that you can play one of two games.
Game 1: You get one shot to make the hoop.
Game 2: You get three shots and you have to make two of three shots.
If p is the probability of making a particular shot, for which values of p should you pick one game
or the other?
pg 123

SOLUTION

To solve this problem, we can apply straightforward probability laws by comparing the probabilities of
winning each game.

Probability of winning Game 1:
The probability of winning Game1 is p, by definition.

Probability of winning Game 2:
Let s(k,n) be the probability of making exactly k shots out of n. The probability of winning Game2 is the
probability of making exactly two shots out of three OR making all three shots. In other words:

P(winning) = s(2,3) + $(3,3)
The probability of making all three shots is:

s(3,3) = Pp
The probability of making exactly two shots is:
P(making 1 and 2,

and missing 3)

+ P(making 1 and 3,
+ P(missing 1,

and missing 2)

and making 2 and 3)

=p*p* (1-p)+p* (1-p)*p+(l1-p)*p*p

3 (1 - p) Pp’

Adding these together, we get:

=p? +3 (1 - p) p*
p?

+

sp7

_

3p?

3p? - 2p?

Which game should you play?

You should play Game 1 ifP(Game 1)
p >

3p? -

2p?.

1

3p -

2p

>

2p? -

> P(Game 2):

3p + 1> 0

(2p - 1)(p- 1) >@
Both terms must be

positive, or both must be negative. But we knowp

<

1,sop

-

1

<

@.This means

both terms must be negative.
2p-1<2@

2p <i
p<

.5

So, we should play Game 1 if@ <

p <

.5andGame2if.5

<

p <

1.

Ifp = 8,0.5,or1,thenP(Game 1) = P(Game 2), soit doesn’t matter which game we play.

290

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 6 | Math and Logic Puzzles
6.3

Dominos: There is an 8x8 chessboard in which two diagonally opposite corners have been cut off.
You are given 31 dominos, and a single domino can cover exactly two squares. Can you use the 31
dominos to cover the entire board? Prove your answer (by providing an example or showing why
it's impossible).

pg 123
SOLUTION

At first, it seems like this should be possible. It’s an 8 x 8 board, which has 64 squares, but two have been cut
off, so we’re down to 62 squares. A set of 31 dominoes should be able to fit there, right?
When we try to lay down dominoes on row 1, which only has 7 squares, we may notice that one domino
must stretch into the row 2. Then, when we try to lay down dominoes onto row 2, again we need to stretch
a domino into row 3.

For each row we place, we'll always have one domino that needs to poke into the next row. No matter how
many times and ways we try to solve this issue, we won't be able to successfully lay down all the dominoes.
There's a cleaner, more solid proof for why it won't work. The chessboard initially has 32 black and 32 white
squares. By removing opposite corners (which must be the same color), we're left with 30 of one color and
32 of the other color. Let's say, for the sake of argument, that we have 30 black and 32 white squares.
Each domino we set on the board will always take up one white and one black square. Therefore, 31 dominos
will take up 31 white squares and 31 black squares exactly. On this board, however, we must have 30 black
squares and 32 white squares. Hence, it is impossible.

6.4

Ants onaTriangle: There are three ants on different vertices of a triangle. What is the probability of
collision (between any two or all of them) if they start walking on the sides of the triangle? Assume
that each ant randomly picks a direction, with eitherdirection being equallylikely
to be chosen, and
that they walk at the same speed.

Similarly, find the probability of collision with n ants on an n-vertex polygon.
pg 123

SOLUTION

The ants will collide if any of them are moving towards each other. So, the only way that they won't collide
is if they are all moving in the same direction (clockwise or counterclockwise). We can compute this prob-

ability and work backwards from there.
Since each ant can move in two directions, and there are three ants, the probability is:

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

291

Solutions to Chapter 6 | Math and Logic Puzzles
P (clockwise) =(%/
P (counter clockwise) =(%)

P (same direction) =(%) +(4Y=¥%
The probability of collision is therefore the probability of the ants not moving in the same direction:

P (collision) =1-P(samedirection)=1-“%=%
To generalize this to an n-vertex polygon: there are still only two ways in which the ants can move to avoid
a collision, but there are 2" ways they can move in total. Therefore, in general, probability of collision is:

P (clockwise) = (%4) ,
P (counter) =(14)"

P (same direction) = 2 (4) =(4)""
P (collision) = 1- P (same direction) = 1- (4%) fe
6.5

Jugs of Water: You have a five-quart jug, a three-quart
jug, and an unlimited supply of water (but

no measuring cups). How would you come up with exactly four quarts of water? Note that the jugs
are oddly shaped, such that filling up exactly “half” of the jug would be impossible.
pg 123

SOLUTION
if we just play with the jugs, weil find that we can pour water back and forth between them as follows:

“

ii

5

0

Filled 5-quart jug.

2

ie

2

0

Dumped 3-quart.

0

2

Fill 3-quart with 5-quart’s contents.

5

2

Filled 5-quart.

A

3

Fill remainder of 3-quart with

Filled 3-quart with 5-quart’s contents.

5-quart.
4

-

_®

Done! We have 4 quarts.

This question, like many puzzle questions, has a math/computer science root. If the two jug sizes are rela-

tively prime, you can measure any value between one and the sumof the jug sizes.

292

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 6 | Math and Logic Puzzles
6.6

Blue-Eyed Island: A bunch of people are living on an island, when a visitor comes with a strange
order: all blue-eyed people must leave the island as soon as possible. There will be a flight out at
8:00pm every evening. Each person can see everyone else's eye color, but they do not know their

own (nor is anyone allowed to tell them). Additionally, they do not know how many people have
blue eyes, although they do know that at least one person does. HOw many days will it take the
blue-eyed people to leave?
pg 123

SOLUTION
Let's apply the Base Case and Build approach. Assume that there are n people on the island and c of them
have blue eyes. We are explicitly told that c

>

@.

Case c= 1: Exactly one person has blue eyes.
Assuming all the people are intelligent, the blue-eyed person should look around and realize that no one
else has blue eyes. Since he knows that at least one person has blue eyes, he must conclude that it is he who
has blue eyes. Therefore, he would take the flight that evening.

Case c = 2: Exactly two people have blue eyes.
The two blue-eyed people see each other, but are unsure whetherC is 1 or 2. They know, from the previous

case, that if c = 1, the blue-eyed person would leave on the first night. Therefore, if the other blue-eyed
personis still there, he must deduce that c = 2, which means that he himself has blue eyes. Both men would
then leave on the second night.

Case c> 2: The General Case.
As we increase c, we can see that this logic continues to apply. If c = 3, then those three people will immediately know that there are either 2 or 3 people with blue eyes. If there were two people, then those two

people would have left on the second night. So, when the others are still around after that night, each
person would conclude that c = 3 and that they, therefore, have blue eyes too. They would leave that night.

This same pattern extends up through any value of c. Therefore, ifc men have blue eyes, it will take c nights
for the blue-eyed men to leave. All will leave on the same night.

6.7.

The Apocalypse: In the new post-apocalyptic world, the world queen is desperately concerned
about the birth rate. Therefore, she decrees that all families should ensure that they have one girl or

else they face massive fines. If all families abide by this policy—that is, they have continue to have
children until they have one girl, at which point they immediately stop—what will the gender ratio

of the new generation be? (Assume that the odds of someone having a boy or a girl on any given
pregnancy is equal.) Solve this out logically and then write a computer simulation of it.
pg 123

SOLUTION

If each family abides by this policy, then each family will have a sequence of zero or more boys followed by
a single girl. That is, if “G” indicates a girl and “B” indicates a boy, the sequence ofchildren will look like one

of: G; BG; BBG; BBBG; BBBBG; and so on.
We can solve this problem multiple ways.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

293

Solutions to Chapter 6 | Math and Logic Puzzles

Mathematically

We can work out the probability for each gender sequence.

-

P(G) = 1%. That is, 50% of families will have a girl first. The others will go on to have more children.

- P(BG)= YW, . Of those who have a second child (which is 50%), 50% of them will have a girl the next time.
P(BBG) = 1%. Of those who have a third child (which is 25%), 50% of them will havea girl the next time.
And so on.

We know that every family has exactly one girl. How many boys does each family have, on average? To

compute this, we can look at the expected value of the number of boys. The expected value of the number
of boys is the probability of each sequence multiplied by the number of boys in that sequence.

[Sequence | Numb
G

BG

1

Ya

BBG

2

A,

BBBG

3

“6

BBBBG

4

VE

Yan

BBBBBG =| 5

Vea

ie

Vive

72s

BBBBBBG

| 6

Ya

7s
7s

Orin other words, this is the sum of i to infinity ofi divided by 2°.

~4

i=0 2’

You probably won't know this off the top of your head, but we can try to estimate it. Let’s try converting the

above values to a common denominator of 128 (2°).

VA = Aes

WB = yo

A = ays

rhe = Bare

A=a

Sr. = Ae

324+32+24+16+10+6
120
128
~ 128

This looks like it’s going to inch closer to 128/48 (which is of course 1). This “looks like” intuition is valuable,
but it’s not exactly a mathematical concept. It’s a clue though and we can turn to logic here. Should it be 1?

Logically

if the earlier sum is 1, this would mean that the gender ratio is even. Families contribute exactly one girl and
on average one boy. The birth policy is therefore ineffective. Does this make sense?
At first glance, this seems wrong. The policy is designed to favor girls as it ensures that all families have a Girl.

294

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 6 | Math and Logic Puzzles
On the other hand, the families that keep having children contribute (potentially) multiple boys to the

population.
This could offset the impact of the “one girl” policy.
One way to think about this is to imagine that we put all the gender sequence of each family into one giant
string. So if family 1 has BG, family 2 has BBG, and family 3 has G, we would write BGBBGG.

{n fact, we don’t really care about the groupings of families because we're concerned about the population
as a whole. As soon as a child is born, we can just append its gender (B or G) to the string.

What are the odds of the next character being a G? Well, if the odds of having a boy and girl is the same,
then the odds of the next character being a G is 50%. Therefore, roughly half of the string should be Gs and
half should be Bs, giving an even gender ratio.
This actually makes a lot of sense. Biology hasn‘t been changed. Half of newborn babies are girls and half are
boys. Abiding by some rule about when to stop having children doesn't change this fact.
Therefore, the gender ratio is 50% girls and 50% boys.

Simulation

We'll write this in a simple way that directly corresponds to the problem.
1

double

2

runNFamilies(int n)

{

int boys = 0;

3

int girls = @;

4

for (int

1 = @;

i

<n;

itt)
{

5

int[] genders = runOneFamily();

)

girls += genders[@];

u

boys += genders[1i];

8

t

g
18

return girls /

(double)

(boys + girls);

}

Butt

12

int[]

runOneFamily()

{

13

Random random = new Random();

14

int boys = 0;

15

int girls = @;

16

while

17

(girls == @) { // until we have a girl

if (random.nextBoolean())

18
19

} else {

28

// girl

//

boy

boys += 1;

21

}

20

}

22

int[] genders = {girls,

24

return genders;

25

{

girls += 1;

boys};

}

Sure enough, if you run this on large values of n, you should get something very close to 0.5.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

295

Solutions to Chapter 6 | Math and Logic Puzzles
6.8

| The Egg Drop Problem: There is a building of 100 floors. If an egg drops from the Nth floor or
above, it will break. If it’s dropped from any floor below, it will not break. You‘re given two eggs. Find
N, while minimizing the number ofdrops for the worst case.
pg 124

SOLUTION

We may observe that, regardless of how we drop Egg 1, Egg 2 must do a linear search (from lowest to
highest) between the “breaking floor” and the next highest non-breaking floor. For example, if Egg 1 is
dropped from floors 5 and 10 without breaking, but it breaks when it’s dropped from floor 15, then Egg 2

must be dropped, in the worst case, from floors 11, 12,

13, and 14.

The Approach

As a first try, suppose we drop an egg from the 10th floor, then the 20th, ...
If Egg 1 breaks on the first drop (floor 10), then we have at most 10 drops total.
If Egg 1 breaks on the last drop (floor 100), then we have at most 19 drops total (floors 10, 20, ....90, 100,
then 91 through 99).
That's pretty good, but all weve considered is the absolute worst case. We should do some “load balancing

a“

to make those two cases more even.

Our goal is to create a system for dropping Egg 1 such that the number of drops is as consistent as possible,
whether Egg 1 breaks on the first drop or the last drop.

1. A perfectly load-balanced system would be one in which Drops (Egg 1) + Drops(Egg 2) is always
the same, regardless of where Egg 1 breaks.
2. For that to be the case, since each drop of Egg 1 takes one more step, Egg 2 is allowed one fewer step.
3. We

must,

therefore,

reduce

one

drop

each

For

time.

the

number

of

example,

if Egg

1

steps
is

potentially

dropped

on

required

floor

20

and

by

Egg

then

2

by

floor

30,

Egg 2 is potentially required to take 9 steps. When we drop Egg 1 again, we must reduce potential Egg 2

steps to only 8. That is, we must drop Egg 1 at floor 39.
4. Therefore, Egg 1 must start at floor X, then go up by X-1

floors, then X- 2, ..., until it gets to 100.

5. Solve for X.

X+(X-1)4+(X- 2)+...+1=100
XO"

100

X=13.65
X clearly needs to be an integer. Should we round X up or down?
+

tfweround X up to 14, then we would go up by 14, then 13, then 12, and so on. The last increment would

be 4, and it would happen on floor 99. If Egg 1 broke on any of the prior floors, we know we've balanced
the eggs such that the number of drops of Egg 1 and Egg 2 always sum to the same thing: 14. if Egg
1 hasn’t broken by floor 99, then we just need one more drop to determine if it will break at floor 100.

Either way, the number of drops is no more than 14.

*

{f we round X down to 13, then we would go up by 13, then 12, then 11, and so on. The last increment
will be 1 and it will happen at floor 91. This is after 13 drops. Floors 92 through 100 have not been
covered yet. We can't cover those floors in just one drop (which would be necessary to merely tie the

296

Cracking the Coding !nterview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 6 | Math and Logic Puzzies
“round up’ case).
Therefore, we should round X up to 14. That is, we go to floor 14, then 27, then 339, .... This takes 14 steps in
the worse case.

As in many other maximizing / minimizing problems, the key in this problem is “worst Case balancing.’
The following code simulates this approach.
1

int breakingPoint =

2

int countDrops = @;

...;

3

4

boolean drop(int floor)

{

5

countDrops++}

6

return floor >= breakingPoint
;

a

all

&

9

int findBreakingPoint(int floors)

18

int

11

int previousFloor = Q@;

i

int egg1 = interval;

{

interval = 14;

43

14

/* Drop egg1 at decreasing

15

while (!drop(egg1) && egg1 <= floors)

16

intervals.

*/

{

interval -= 1;

17

previousFloor = egg1;

18

egg1 += interval;

}

1S
228

21

/* Drop egg2 at

22

int egg2 = previousFloor + 1;

23

while

24

1 unit increments.

*/

(egg2 < egg1 && egg? <= floors &&

!drop(egg2))

{

egeg2 += 1;

25

Ap

26

2?

/* If it didn’t break,

return

28

return egg2

-1

23

> floors

?

:

-1.

*/

egg2;

+}

if we want to generalize this code for more building sizes, then we can solve for x in:

or" = number of floors
This will involve the quadratic formula.

6.9

100 Lockers: There are 100 closed lockers in a hallway. A man begins by opening all 100 lockers.
Next, he closes every second locker. Then, on his third pass, he toggles every third locker (closes it if

it is open or opens it if it is closed). This process continues for 100 passes, such that on each pass 7,
the man toggles every ith locker. After his

100th pass in the hallway, in which he toggles only locker

#100, how many lockers are open?
pg 124
SOLUTION

We can tackle this problem by thinking through what it means for a door to be toggled. This will help us
deduce which doors at the very end will be left opened.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

297

Solutions to Chapter 6 {| Math and Logic Puzzles
Question: For which rounds is a door toggled (open or closed)?
A door n is toggled once for each factor of n, including itself and 1. That is, door 15 is toggled on rounds 1,
3,5, and 15.

Question: When would a door be left open?
A door is left open if the number of factors (which we will call x) is odd. You can think about this by pairing

factors off as an open and a close. If there’s one remaining, the door will be open.

Question: When would x be odd?
The value x is odd if n is a perfect square. Here’s why: pair n’s factors by their complements. For example,
if n is 36, the factors are (1, 36), (2, 18), (3, 12), (4, 9), (6, 6). Note that (6, 6) only contributes one factor, thus
giving n an odd number of factors.

Question: How many perfect squares are there?

There are 10 perfect squares.
You could count them (1, 4, 9, 16, 25, 36, 49, 64, 81, 100), or you could simply
realize that you can take the numbers 1 through 10 and square them:

1*1,

2*2,

3*3,

...,

10*10

Therefore, there are 10 lockers open at the end of this process.

6.10

Poison: You have 1000 bottles of soda, and exactly one is poisoned. You have 10 test strips which
can be used to detect poison. A single drop of poison will turn the test strip positive permanently.
You can put any number ofdrops on a test strip at once and you can reusea test strip as many times
as you'd like (as long as the results are negative). However, you can only run tests once per day and
it takes seven days to return a result. How would you figure out the poisoned bottle in as few days
as possible?
Follow up: Write code to simulate your approach.
pg 124

SOLUTION
Observe the wording of the problem. Why seven days? Why not have the results just return immediately?
The fact that there’s such a lag between starting a test and reading the results likely means that we'l be

doing something else in the meantime (running additional tests). Let's hold on to that thought, but start off
with a simple approach just to wrap our heads around the problem.
Naive Approach (28 days)

A simple approach is to divide the bottles across the 10

test strips, first in groups of 100. Then, we wait seven

days. When the results come back, we look for a positive result across the test strips. We select the bottles
associated with the positive test strip, “toss” (i.e., ignore) all the other bottles, and repeat the process. We

perform this operation until there is only one bottle left in the test set.
1. Divide bottles across available test strips, one drop per test strip.

2. After Seven days, check the test strips for results.
3. Onthe positive test strip: select the bottles associated with it into a new set of bottles. If this set size is 1,

298

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 6 | Math and Logic Puzzles
we have located the poisoned bottle. If it’s greater than one, go to step 1.

To simulate this, we'l build classes for Bottle and TestStrip that mirror the problem’s functionality.
1

class Bottle {

2

private boolean poisoned = false;

3

private int id;

4
5

public Bottle(int id)

6

public int getId()

{ this.id = id;

7

public void setAsPoisoned()

{ poisoned = true;

}

8

public boolean isPoisoned()

{

}

{ return id;

}

}

return poisoned;

a:
18

11

class TestStrip {

12

public static int
DAYS
FOR
RESULT = 7;

13

private ArrayList<ArrayList<Bottle>> dropsByDay =

14
is

new ArrayList<ArrayList<Bottle>>();
private int id;

16

17

public TestStrip(int id)

18

public int getId() { return id;

29

/* Resize list of days/drops to be large enough.

2

private void

22

while

22

}

}

*/

sizeDropsForDay(int day) {

(dropsByDay.size()

<= day)

{

dropsByDay.add(new ArrayList<Bottle>());

24

25

{ this.id = id;

}

}

26

27

/* Add drop from bottle on specific day.

28

public void addDropOnDay(int day,

*/

Bottle bottle)

23

sizeDropsForDay
(day) ;

3e

ArrayList<Bottle> drops = dropsByDay.get(day);

31

drops.add(bottle)
;

32

}

34

/* Checks

35

private boolean hasPoison(ArrayList<Bottle>

36

if any of the bottles in the set are poisoned.

for (Bottle b

37

:

bottles)

bottles)

*/

{

{

if (b.isPoisoned()) {

38

return true;

39

}

40

}

AL

return false;

42

{

}

43

44

/* Gets bottles used in the test DAYS FOR_RESULT days ago.

45

public ArrayList<Bottle> getLastWeeksBottles(int day)

46

if (day <

AF

DAYS_FOR RESULT)

{

return null;

43

}

4s

return dropsByDay.get(day - DAYS_FOR_RESULT);

59

*/

{

}

$1

52

/* Checks for poisoned bottles since before DAYS FOR_RESULT */

53

public boolean isPositiveOnDay(int day) {

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

299

Solutions to Chapter 6 | Math and Logic Puzzles
54

int testDay = day - DAYSFOR_RESULT;

Ee

if (testDay < @ || testDay >= dropsByDay.size()) {
return false;

56
57

}

58

for (int d = 9; d <= testDay; d++)

{

59

ArrayList<Bottle> bottles = dropsByDay.get(d);

59

if (hasPoison(bottles)) {

61

return true;

62

}

63

}

64

return false;

65

}

66

}

This is just one way of simulating the behavior of the bottles and test strips, and each has its pros and cons.

With this infrastructure built, we can now implement code to test our approach.
1

int findPoisonedBottle(ArrayList<Bottle> bottles, ArrayList<TestStrip> strips)

2

{

int today = 9;

3
4

while

5

/*

(bottles.size()

§

runTestSet(bottles,

Run tests.

> 1 && strips.size()

> @)

{

*/

strips,

today)
;

e

8

/* Wait for results.

9

today += TestStrip.DAYS FOR_RESULT;

*/

13

Li

/* Check results.

412

for (TestStrip strip : strips) {

13

if

14

*/

(strip.isPositiveOnDay(today))

{

bottles = strip.getLastweeksBottles
(today) ;

15

strips.remove(strip);

16

break;

1?

}

18

}

19

}

22

21

if (bottles.size()

22
23

}

24

return

25

== 1)

{

return bottles.get(@).getId();
-1;

}

2%

27

/* Distribute bottles across test strips evenly.

28

void runTestSet(ArrayList<Bottle> bottles, ArrayList<TestStrip> strips,

29

int index = 9;

393

for (Bottle bottle : bottles) {

aH

*/

int day)

{

TestStrip strip = strips.get(index);

a2

strip.addDropOnDay(day,

33

index = (index + 1) % strips.size();

34

bottle);

}

3
36

37

/* The complete code can be found in the downloadable code attachment.

*/

Note that this approach makes the assumption that there will always be multiple test strips at each round.

This assumption is valid for

300

1000 bottles and 10 test strips.

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 6 | Math and Logic Puzzles
If we can’t assume this, we can implement a fail-safe. If we have just one test strip remaining, we start doing
one bottle at a time: test a bottle, wait a week, test another bottle. This approach will take at most 28 days.
Optimized Approach (10 days)
As noted in the beginning of the solution, it might be more optimal to run multiple tests at once.
If we divide the bottles up into 10 groups (with bottles 0- 99 going to strip 0, bottles

100 -

199 going to strip

1, bottles 200 - 299 going to strip 2, and so on), then day 7 will reveal the first digit of the bottle number. A

positive result on strip 1 at day 7 shows that the first digit (100’s digit) of the bottle number is i.
Dividing the bottles in a different way can reveal the second or third digit. We just need to run these tests

on different days so that we don't confuse the results.

Day0->7 | Day1->8 | Day2->9
Strip 0

Oxx

x0x

xx0

Strip 1

1xx

x1x

Xx

Strip 2

2XX

x2X

Xx2

Strip 3

3xx

x3x

xx3

Strip 4

Axx

x4x

xx4

Strip 5

5xx

x5X

xx5

Strip 6

6Xxx

x6x

xx6

Strip 7

7XX

x7X

Xx7

Strip 8

8xx

x8x

xx8

Strip 9

Qxx

x9x

Xx9

For example, if day 7 showed a positive result on strip 4, day 8 showed a positive result on strip 3, and day 9

showed a positive result on strip 8, then this would map to bottle #438.
This mostly works, except for one edge case: what happens if the poisoned bottle has a duplicate digit? For
example, bottle #882 or bottle #383.
In fact, these cases are quite different. If day 8 doesn't have any”“new’” positive results, then we can conclude
that digit 2 equals digit 1.
The bigger issue is what happens if day 9 doesn’t have any new positive results. In this case, all we know is
that digit 3 equals either digit 1 or digit 2. We could not distinguish between bottle #383 and bottle #388.
They will both have the same pattern of test results.
We will need to run one additional test. We could run this at the end to clear up ambiguity, but we can also
run it at day 3, just in case there’s any ambiguity. All we need to do is shift the final digit so that it winds up
in a different place than day 2's results.

Strip 0

Oxx

x0x

xx0

xx9

Strip 1

1xx

x1x

Xx]

xx0

Strip 2

2XX

x2Xx

xx2

xx

Strip 3

3xx

x3x

xx3

XX2

Strip 4

Axx

x4x

xx4

xx3

Strip 5

5XX

x5x

xx5

xx4

CrackingTheCoding!nterview.com | 6th Edition

301

Solutions to Chapter 6 | Math and Logic Puzzles

Strip 6

Xx6

xx5

Strip 7

7XX

x7X

xx7

Xx6

Strip 8

8xx

xX8X

xx8

Xx7

Strip 9

9xx

x9X

Xx9

xx8

Now, bottle #383 will see (Day 7 = #3, Day 8 -> #8, Day 9 -> [NONE], Day 10 -> #4), while bottle #388 will see
(Day 7 = #3, Day 8 -> #8, Day 9 -> [NONE], Day 10 -> #9). We can distinguish between these by “reversing”
the shifting on day 10's results.

What happens, though, if day 10 still doesn’t see any new results? Could this happen?
Actually, yes. Bottle #898 would see (Day 7 = #8, Day 8 -> #9, Day 9 -> [NONE], Day 10 -> [NONE]). That's

okay, though.
We just need to distinguish bottle #898 from #899. Bottle #899 will see (Day 7 = #8, Day 8 ->
#9, Day 9 -> [NONE], Day 10 -> #0).

The “ambiguous” bottles from day 9 will always map to different values on day 10. The logic is:
If Day 3->10’s test reveals a new test result, “unshift” this value to derive the third digit.
«

Otherwise, we know that the third digit equals either the first digit or the second digit and that the third
digit, when shifted, still equals either the first digit or the second digit. Therefore, we just need to figure

out whether the first digit “shifts” into the second digit or the other way around. In the former case, the
third digit equals the first digit. In the latter case, the third digit equals the second digit.
Implementing this requires some careful work to prevent bugs.
1

int findPoisonedBottle(ArrayList<Bottle> bottles,

2

if (bottles.size() > 10¢@ ||

ArrayList<TestStrip>

strips.size() < 10)

strips)

{

return -1;

3

4

int tests

ES

int nTestStrips = strips.size();

= 4;

// three digits,

plus one extra

&

7

/* Run tests.

8

for

s

*/

(int day = @;

day < tests;

runTestSet (bottles,

18

strips,

day++)

{

day);

}

a!

”

/* Get results.

13

HashSet<Integer>

14

int[]

15

for

*/
previousResults

= new HashSet<Integer>();

digits = new int[tests];

(int day = @; day < tests; day++)

16

int

7

digits[day]

1g

previousResults.add(digits[day
]);

18

{

resultDay = day + TestStrip.DAYS FOR_RESULT;

= getPositiveOnDay(strips,

resultDay,

previousResults)
;

}

28

21

/*

22

if (digits[1]

23
24

If day 1's

digits[1]

results matched day @'s,

== -1)

update the digit.

*/

{

= digits[e];

4}

RS

26

/* If day 2 matched day @ or day 1,

rai

* incremented by 1. */

28

if (digits[2]

302

==

-1)

{

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

check day 3.

Day 3 is the same as day 2,

but

Solutions to Chapter 6 | Math and Logic Puzzles
Oe

if (digits[3] == -1) { /* Day 3 didn't give new result */

38

/* Digit 2 equals digit © or digit 1.

eat

But, digit 2, when incremented also

* matches digit © or digit 1. This means that digit © incremented matches

32

* digit 1,

22

or the other way around.

*/

digits[2] = ((digits[®] + 1) % nTestStrips) == digits[1]

34

digits[®]

35

:

?

digits[1];

} else {

36

digits[2]

37

= (digits[3]

- 1 + nlestStrips) % nTestStrips;

}
}

38
38
49

4i

return digits[@]

* 100 + digits[1]

* 10 + digits[2];

}

42

43

/* Run set of tests for this day.

44

void runTestSet(ArrayList<Bottle> bottles, ArrayList<TestStrip> strips,

45

if (day > 3)

return;

*/

// only works for 3 days

int day) {

(digits) + one extra

46

4?

for (Bottle bottle

:

bottles) {

48

int index = getTestStripIndexForDay(bottle,

48

TestStrip testStrip = strips.get(index)
;

56

testStrip.addDropOnDay(day,

51

52

day,

strips.size());

bottle);

}

}

53

54

/* Get strip that should be used on this

55

int getTestStripIndexForDay(Bottle bottle,

56

int id = bottle.getId();

57

switch

case @:

59

case 1:

return (id % 100) / 10;

66

case 2:

return id % 10;

61

case 3:

return

62

default:

64

int day,

*/

int nTestStrips) {

(day) {

58

63

bottle on this day.

return id /1@0;

(id % 10 + 1) % nTestStrips;

return -1;

}
}

65

66

/* Get results that are

67

int getPositiveOnDay(ArrayList<TestStrip> testStrips,

68

69

positive for a

particular

day,

HashSet<Integer> previousResults)

excluding prior results.

*/

int day,
{

for (TestStrip testStrip : testStrips) {

78

int id = testStrip.getId();

Tal

if (testStrip.isPositiveOnDay(day) && !previousResults.contains(id)) {

72

return testStrip.getId();

73

}

74

}

7S

return -1;

76
}

It will take 10 days in the worst case to get a result with this approach.
Optimal Approach (7 days)

We can actually optimize this slightly more, to return a result in just seven days. This is of course the
minimum number ofdays possible.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

303

Solutions to Chapter 6 | Math and Logic Puzzles
Notice what each test strip really means. It’s a binary indicator for poisoned or unpoisoned. Is it possible to
map 1000 keys to 10 binary values such that each key is mapped to a unique configuration of values? Yes,
of course. This is what a binary number is.

We can take each bottle number and look at its binary representation. If there’s a 1 in the ith digit, then
we will add a drop of this bottle’s contents to test strip 1. Observe that 2'° is 1024, so 10 test strips will be
enough to handle up to 1024 bottles.

We wait seven days, and then read the results. if test strip 1 is positive, then set bit 1 of the result value.
Reading all the test strips will give us the !D of the poisoned bottle.
1

int findPoisonedBottle(ArrayList<Bottle> bottles, ArrayList<TestStrip> strips)

2

runtests(bottles,

3

ArrayList<Integer> positive = getPositiveOnDay(strips,

4

return setBits (positive) ;

5

{

strips);
7);

4}

®

?

/* Add bottle contents to test strips

8

void runTests(ArrayList<Bottle> bottles, ArrayList<TestStrip> testStrips)

=

for

18

(Bottle

bottle

:

{

{

int id = bottle.getId();

di

int bitIndex = @;

12

while

13

if

14

(id

> ®)

((id & 1)

{

== 1)

{

testStrips.get(bitIindex) .addDropOnDay(@,

15

}

16

bitIndex++;

17

id

is

bottle);

>>= 1;

}

chs!
2@

bottles)

*/

}
}

Pal

22

/* Get test strips that

23

ArrayList<Integer> getPositiveOnDay(ArrayList<TestStrip> testStrips,

are

positive on a

particular

day.

24

ArrayList<Integer> positive = new ArrayList<Integer>();

a5:

for (TestStrip testStrip

int id = testStrip.getId();

2?

if

{

(testStrip.isPositiveOnDay(day))

{

positive.add(id)
;

29

}

38

}

31

32

int day)

: testStrips) {

26
28

*/

return

positive;

}

Se

34

/* Create

35

int setBits(ArrayList<Integer> positive)

number by setting bits with indices

36

int id = @;

37

for

38

(Integer bitIndex

id

positive)

*/

{

|=1 << bitIndex;

39

}

48

return id;

41

:

specified in positive.

{

}

This approach will work as long as 2'

>=

B, where T is the number of test strips and B is the number of

bottles.

304

Cracking the Coding tnterview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Object-Oriented Design

7.1

Deck of Cards: Design the data structures for a generic deck of cards. Explain how you would
subclass the data structures to implement blackjack.
pg 127

SOLUTION

First, we need to recognize that a “generic” deck of cards can mean many things. Generic could mean a
standard deck of cards that can play a poker-like game, or it could even stretch to Uno or Baseball cards. It
is important to ask your interviewer what she means by generic.
Let’s assume that your interviewer clarifies that the deck is a standard 52-card set, like you might see used

in a blackjack or poker game. If so, the design might look like this:
1

public enum Suit {

2

Club (0),

3

private int value;

4

private Suit(int v)

5

public int getValue()

6

public

?

Diamond (1),

Heart

(2), Spade

{ value = v;
{

(3);

}

return value;

}

static Suit getSuitFromValue(int value)

{

...

}

}

8
5

public class Deck <T extends Card> {

18

private ArrayList<T> cards;

// all cards,

ce

private int

// marks first undealt card

dealtIndex = 0;

dealt or not

12

13

public void setDeckOfCards(ArrayList<T> deckOfCards)

{

...

}

14

15

public void shuffle()

...

}

is

public int remainingCards()

{

1?

return cards.size()

{
-

dealtIndex;

18

}

We:

public T[] dealHand(int number) {

2e

public T dealCard()

21

{

...

...

}

}

}

22

23
24

public abstract class Card {
private boolean available = true;

25

26

/*

number or face

that’s on

a7

* Queen,

13 for King,

28

protected

29

protected Suit suit;

card

-

a

number 2 through

10,

or 11 for Jack,

12 for

or 1 for Ace */

int faceValue;

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

305

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
32

31

public Card(int

32

c,

Suit s)

{

faceValue = Cc;

33

suit = Ss;

34

}

BS)

6

public abstract int value();

37

public Suit suit()

38
39

/* Checks

48

public boolean isAvailable()

41

public void markUnavailable()

42

public void markAvailable()

43

{ return suit;

}

if the card is available to be given out to someone */
{ return available;

}

{ available = false;

{ available = true;

}

}

}

44

45

public class Hand <T extends Card> {

46

protected ArrayList<T>

cards = new ArrayList<T>();

a?

48

public

int score()

49

int score = Q;

56

for (T card

Si

:

{

cards) {

score += card.value();

52

i

ney

return score;
}

54
55

56

public void addCard(T card)

57
58

59

{

cards.add(card)
;
}

}

In the above code, we have implemented Deck with generics but restricted the type of T to Card. We

have also implemented Card as an abstract class, since methods like value() don’t make much sense
without a specific game attached to them. (You could make a compelling argument that they should be
implemented anyway, by defaulting to standard poker rules.)
Now, let’s say we're building a blackjack game, so we need to know the value of the cards. Face cards are 10

and anace is 11 (most of the time, but that’s the job of the Hand class, not the following class).
1

public class BlackJackHand extends Hand<BlackJackCard> {

2

/* There are multiple possible scores for a blackjack hand,

=

* multiple values.

4

* lowest score that’s over.

5

public int score()

*/

{

§

ArrayList<Integer> scores = possibleScores();

7

int maxUnder = Integer.MIN VALUE;

8

int minOver = Integer .MAX_VALUE;

9

for (int score

18

if

14

:

scores)

{

> 21 && score < minOver)

} else if

43

(score <= 21 && score > maxUnder)

maxUnder

14

{

= score;

}

48

}

16

return maxUnder

==

Integer.MIN VALUE

}

18

306

{

minOver = score;

42

i?

(score

since aces have

Return the highest possible score that’s under 21,

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

> minOver

:

maxUnder;

or the

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
/* return a list of all possible scores this hand could have (evaluating each

18

* ace as both 1 and 11 */

20

private ArrayList<Integer> possibleScores()

ai

{

...

}

22

23

public boolean busted()

24

public boolean is21()

public boolean isBlackJack() {

25

26

{ return score() > 21;

{ return score() == 21;
...

}
}

}

4}

27

2s

public class BlackJackCard extends Card {

29

public BlackJackCard(int c,

38

public int value()

el

if (isAce())

52)

else if (faceValue >= 11 && faceValue <= 13)

33

else return faceValue;

34

Suit s)

{ super(c,

s);

}

{

return 1;
return 10;

}

35

public int minValue()

36

if (isAce())

37

else

35

{

return 1;

return value();

}

39
AG

public int maxValue()

Al

if (isAce())

A2,

{

return 11;

else return value();

AB

}

44
AS

public boolean isAce()

AS

{

return faceValue == 1;

A?

}

Ag

49

public boolean

59
52

53

isFaceCard()

return faceValue

51

}

{

>= 11 && faceValue <= 13;

}

This is just one way of handling aces. We could, alternatively, create a class of type Ace that extends

BlackJackCard.
An executable, fully automated version of blackjack is provided in the downloadable code attachment.

7.2

Call Center: Imagine you have a call center with three levels of employees: respondent, manager,
and director. An incoming telephone call must be first allocated to a respondent who is free. If the
respondent can't handle the call, he or she must escalate the call to a manager. if the manager is not
free or not able to handle it, then the call should be escalated to a director. Design the classes and
data structures for this problem. Implement a method dispatchCal1() which assigns a call to
the first available employee.
pg 127

SOLUTION

All three ranks of employees have different work to be done, so those specific functions are profile specific.
We should keep these things within their respective class.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

307

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
There are a few things which are common to them, like address, name, job title, and age. These things can
be kept in one class and can be extended or inherited by others.

Finally, there should be one Cal lHandler class which would route the calls to the correct person.
Note that on any object-oriented design question, there are many ways to design the objects. Discuss the

trade-offs of different solutions with your interviewer. You should usually design for long-term code flex-

ibility and maintenance.
We'll go through each of the classes below in detail.
CallHandler represents the body of the program, and all calls are funneled first through it.
2.

public class CallHandler {

2

/*

3

private final int LEVELS = 3;

3

levels of

employees:

respondents,

managers,

directors.

*/

4
=

/* Initialize 10 respondents,

&

private final int NUM_RESPONDENTS = 10;

4 managers,

7

private final int

8

private final int NUM_DIRECTORS = 2;

NUM MANAGERS

and 2 directors.

*/

= 4;

9

19

/*

List of employees,

by level.

41

* employeeLevels[@]

412

* employeeLevels[1] = managers

43

* employeeLevels[2]

14

*/

15

= respondents

= directors

List<List<Employee>> employeeLevels;

1s
LG

/* queues

18

List<List<Call>>

for each

call’s

rank

*/

callQueues;

19

20

public CallHandler()

{

...

}

21

22

/* Gets the first available employee who can handle this

23

public

25

/* Routes the call to an available employee,

26

2?

*

available.

{

...

call.*/

}

or saves

in a queue if no employee

*/

public void dispatchCall(Caller caller)

28

{

Call call = new Call(caller);

ae

36

is

Employee getHandlerForCall(Call call)

dispatchCall(call);

}

31

ae

/* Routes the call to an available employee, or saves in a queue if no employee

38

34

*

is

available.

*/

public void dispatchCall(Call call)

35

/* Try to

36

Employee

emp =

37

if

!= null)

38

(emp

route the

call to an

{

employee with minimal

rank.

{

emp.receiveCall(call1);

ot)

call.setHandler(emp)
;

AG

} else {

a4

/*

ae

call.reply(“Please wait for free employee to reply”);

=

308

Place the cali into corresponding

call queue according to its

caliQueues.get(call.getRank().getValue()).add(call);

A&,

a5

*/

getHandlerForCall(call);

}

}

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

rank.

*/

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
46

47

/ *An employee got free.

48
49
58

Look for a waiting call that employee can serve.

* true if we assigned a call, false otherwise.
public boolean assignCall(Employee emp)

{

...

Return

*/

}

}

Call represents a call from a user. A call has a minimum rank and is assigned to the first employee who
can handle
it.
1

public

class Call {

a

/ *Minimal rank of employee who can handle this call.

3

private Rank rank;

*/

A

5

/ *Person who is

6

private Caller caller;

calling.

*/

7

g

/ *Employee who is handling call.

*/

private Employee handler;
12

11

public Call(Caller c)

12

{

rank = Rank.Responder;

13

caller = c;

14

}

15
16

/

1?

public void setHandler(Employee e)

*Set

employee who

is

handling call.

*/

{ handler = e;

}

18

19

public void reply(String message) {

28

public Rank getRank()

21

public void setRank(Rank r) {

rank = r;

22

public Rank incrementRank() {

...

23

24

...

}

{ return rank; }

public void disconnect() {

...

}

}

}

}

Employee is a super class forthe Director, Manager, and Respondent classes. It is implemented as an
abstract class since there should be no reason to instantiate an Employee type directly.
1

abstract class

Employee {

2

private Call currentCall = null;

3

protected Rank rank;

4

5

public

Employee(CallHandler handler)

{

..-.

}

6
7

/ *Start the conversation */

8

public void receiveCall(Call call)

{

...

}

9

16

/ *the issue is resolved,

11

public void callCompleted() {

finish the call */

...

}

12
13
14

15

/ *The issue has not been resolved.
* the employee.

Escalate the call,

and assign a new call to

*/

public void escalateAndReassign()

{

...

}

16

17

/ *Assign a new call to an employee,

if the employee is free.

18

public boolean assignNewCall()

}

{

...

*/

19

28

/ *Returns whether or not the employee is free.

val

public boolean isFree() { return currentCall == null; }

*/

22

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com| 6th Edition

309

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
23

public Rank getRank()

{

return rank; }

}

24

25

The Respondent, Director, and Manager classes are now just simple extensions of the Employee
class.
1

class Director extends Employee {

2

public Director() {

3

rank = Rank.Director;

4
3

f

}

6

7

class Manager extends

8

public Manager()

g

Employee {

{

rank = Rank.Manager
;

168

}

11

}

43

class Respondent extends Employee {

414

public Respondent() {

15

rank = Rank.Responder;

16

}
}

17

This is just one way of designing this problem. Note that there are many other ways that are equally good.
This may seem like an awful lot of code to write in an interview, and it is. We’ve been much more thorough
here than you would need. In a real interview, you would likely be much lighter on some of the details until

you have time to fill them in.

7.3.

Jukebox: Design a musical jukebox using object-oriented principles.
pg 127

SOLUTION

In any object-oriented design question, you first want to start off with asking your interviewer some
questions to clarify design constraints. is this jukebox playing CDs? Records? MP3s? is it a simulation ona
computer, or is it supposed to represent a physical jukebox? Does it take money, or is it free? And if it takes
money, which currency? And does it deliver change?
Unfortunately, we don’t have an interviewer here that we can have this dialogue with. Instead, we'll make
some assumptions. We'll assume that the jukebox is a computer simulation that closely mirrors physical
jukeboxes, and we'll assume that it’s free.
Now that we have that out of the way, we'll outline the basic system components:
*

Jukebox

-

CD

-

Song

-

Artist

-

Playlist

-

Display (displays details on the screen)

Now, let’s break this down further and think about the possible actions.

310

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
«

Playlist creation (includes add, delete, and shuffle)

*

(CD selector

+

Song selector

»

Queuing up a song

-

Get next song from playlist

A user also can be introduced:

*

Adding

-

Deleting

¢

Credit information

Each of the main system components translates roughly to an object, and each action translates to a
method. Let’s walk through one potential design.
The Jukebox class represents the body of the problem. Manyof the interactions between the components
of the system, or between the system and the user, are channeled through here.
1

public class Jukebox {

2

private CDPlayer cdPlayer;

3

private User user;

4

private Set<CD>

5

private SongSelector ts;

cdCollection;

6

public Jukebox(CDPlayer cdPlayer,

7
8

SongSelector ts)

{

User user, Set<CD> cdCollection,
...

}

¢

1@

public Song getCurrentSong() { return ts.getCurrentSong();

11

public void setUser(User u)

}

{ this.user = u; }

12
}

Like a real CD player, the CDPlayer class supports storing just one CD at a time. The CDs that are not in

eR

public class CDPlayer {

ie Wh

private Playlist p;

NW Ow

/ * Constuctors.

DO

play are stored in the jukebox.

public CDPlayer(CD c) { this.c = c;

13

/ *Play song */

11

public void playSong(Song s) {

private CD c;

*/

public CDPlayer(CD c,

Playlist p)

{

...

13

/ *Getters and setters */

14

public

15

public void setPlaylist(Playlist p)

17

public CD getCD() { return c;

18

public void setCD(CD c)

1%

...

}

public CDPlayer(Playlist p) { this.p = p;

Playlist getPlaylist()

{

}

}

}

return p;

}

{ this.p = p;

}

}

{ this.c = c;

}

}

The Playlist manages the current and next songs to play. It is essentially a wrapper Class for a queue and
offers some additional methods for convenience.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

311

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design’
i

public class Playlist {

a

private Song song;

3

private Queue<Song> queue;

4

public Playlist(Song song, Queue<Song> queue)

{

5

6

}

7

public Song getNextSToPlay()

&

{

return queue.peek();

g

}

19

public void queueUpSong(Song s) {

‘jail

queue.add(s);

12

}

}

13

The classes for CD, Song, and User are all fairly straightforward. They consist mainly of member variables

public

class CD { /* data for id,

public

class

artist,

Song { /* data for id,

songs,

etc */ }

CD (could be null), title,

length,

etc */ }

&

Wh

eR

and getters and setters.

OS ui

public class User {

oN

public String getName()

Ww

private String name;

{

return name;

public long getiID()

19

public void setID(long iD)

AW

private long ID;

public void setName(String name)

{
}

{ return ID;

{ ID = iD;

}

}

12

public User(String name,

13

public User getUser()

14

public static User addUser(String name,

{

long iD)

}

this.name = name;

{

...

return this;

}

}
long iD) {

...

}

a5}
This is by no means the only “correct” implementation. The interviewer's responses to initial questions, as

well as other constraints, will shape the design of the jukebox classes.

7.4

Parking Lot: Design a parking lot using object-oriented principles.
pg 127

SOLUTION

The wording of this question is vague, just as it would be in an actual interview. This requires you to have
a conversation with your interviewer about what types of vehicles it can support, whether the parking lot
has multiple levels, and so on.
For our purposes right now, we'll make the following assumptions. We made these specific assumptions to
add a bit of complexity to the problem without adding too much. If you made different assumptions, that’s
totally fine.
+

The parking lot has multiple levels. Each level has multiple rows of spots.

*

The parking lot can park motorcycles, cars, and buses.

*

The parking lot has motorcycle spots, compact spots, and large spots.

«+

Amotorcycle can park in any spot.

*

Acarcan park in either a single compact spot or a single large spot.

312

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
-

Abus can park in five large spots that are consecutive and within the same row. It cannot park in small
spots.

In the below implementation, we have created an abstract class Vehicle, from which Car, Bus, and
Motorcycle inherit. To handle the different parking spot sizes, we have just one class ParkingSpot
public enum VehicleSize { Motorcycle, Compact,

Large }

Pf

protected ArrayList<ParkingSpot> parkingSpots = new ArrayList<ParkingSpot>();

Out

protected String licensePlate;

ON

public abstract class Vehicle {

protected VehicleSize size;

DW

Wh? be

which has a member variable indicating the size.

public int getSpotsNeeded()

18

public VehicleSize getSize() {

12

/* Park vehicle in this spot (among others,

13

public void parkInSpot(ParkingSpot s)

15

/* Remove car from spot,

and notify spot that it’s gone */

16

public void clearSpots()

{

/* Checks

big enough for the vehicle

protected int spotsNeeded;

{

...

return spotsNeeded;

return size;

}

}
potentially) */

{ parkingSpots.add(s);

}

}

1?

18
i

20

21

if the spot is

* compares the SIZE only.

It does

(and is available).

not check if it has enough spots.

public abstract boolean canFitInSpot(ParkingSpot

This

*/

spot)
;

}

22

23

public class Bus extends Vehicle {

24

public Bus()

25

{

spotsNeeded = 5;

26

size = VehicleSize.Large;

27

}

23

29

/* Checks

30

public

31

if the

spot is

a

Large.

Doesn’t

boolean canFitInSpot(ParkingSpot

check num of spots

spot)

{

...

*/

}

}

32

33

public

34

class Car extends Vehicle {

public Car()

35

{

spotsNeeded = 1;

36

size = VehicleSize.Compact;

}

37
38
39

/* Checks

46

public

4i

if the spot is

boolean

a Compact or a

canFitInSpot(ParkingSpot

Large.

*/

spot)

{

...

}

public boolean canFitInSpot(ParkingSpot spot)

{

...

}

}

42

43

public class Motorcycle extends Vehicle {

44

public Motorcycle() {

45

spotsNeeded = 1;

46

size = VehicleSize.Motorcycle;

AF

}

48

49

5@

}

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

313

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
The ParkingLot class is essentially a wrapper class fOr an array of Levels. By implementing it this way,
we are able to separate out logic that deals with actually finding free spots and parking cars out from the
broader actions of the ParkingLot. If we didn't do it this way, we would need to hold parking spots in
some sort of double array (or hash table which maps from alevel number to the list of spots). It's cleaner to

just separate ParkingLot from Level.
1

public class ParkingLot {

2

private Level{]

3

private final int NUM_LEVELS = 5;

levels;

4

5

public ParkingLot() {

...

}

&

7

/* Park the vehicle in a spot

8

public boolean parkVehicle(Vehicle vehicle) {

3

(or multiple spots).
...

Return false if failed.

*/

}

ft

10

11

/* Represents a

12

public class

13

level in a parking garage */

Level {

private int floor;

14

private ParkingSpot[] spots;

15

private int availableSpots = 0;

16

private static final int SPOTS _PER_ROW = 10;

//

number of free spots

17

18

public Level(int flr,

int numberSpots) {

...

}

19

20

public int availableSpots()

{ return availableSpots;

}

2i
22

/*

23

public boolean parkVehicle(Vehicle vehicle)

Find a

place to park this

vehicle.

Return

false

{

if failed.

*/

... }

24

ny

/* Park a vehicle starting at the spot spotNumber,

26

* vehicle.spotsNeeded.

27

and continuing until

*/

private boolean parkStartingAtSpot(int num,

Vehicle v)

{

...

aS

/*

index of spot,

30

private int findAvailableSpots(Vehicle vehicle) {

}

28

Find a spot to park this vehicle.

Return

...

or -1 on failure.

*/

}

34

32

/* When a car was removed from the

33

public void spotFreed()

34

spot,

increment availableSpots */

{ availableSpots++;

}

}

The ParkingSpot is implemented by having just a variable which represents the size of the spot. We

could have implemented this by having classes for LargeSpot, CompactSpot, and MotorcycleSpot
which inherit from ParkingSpot, but this is probably overkill. The spots probably do not have different
behaviors,
other
than their sizes.
1.

public class ParkingSpot {

2

private Vehicle vehicle;

3

private VehicleSize spotSize;

4

private int

row;

5

private int

spotNumber;

6

private Level level;

7

g

public ParkingSpot(Level lvl,

int r,

int n, VehicleSize s) {...}

3
10

public boolean isAvailable()

{

return vehicle == null;

12

“314

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

}

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
42

/* Check if the spot

Ae

public boolean canFitVehicle(Vehicle vehicle)

is big enough and is available */

{

...

}

14

15

/* Park vehicle in this

16

public boolean park(Vehicle v) {

spot.

*/

...

18

public int getRow() { return row;

}

13

public int getSpotNumber()

}

1?

{ return spotNumber;

}

28
21

/*

22

public void removeVehicle()

23

Remove vehicle from spot,

and notify level that a new spot is available */
{

...

}

}

A full implementation of this code, including executable test code, is provided in the downloadable code
attachment.

7.5

Online Book Reader: Design the data structures for an online book reader system.
pg 127

SOLUTION

Since the problem doesn’t describe much about the functionality, let's assume we want to design a basic

online reading system which provides the following functionality:
«

User membership creation and extension.

*

Searching the database of books,

-

Reading a book.

«

Only one active user at a time

«

Only one active book by this user.

To implement these operations we may require many other functions, like get, set, update, and so on.
The objects required would likely include User, Book, and Library.
The classOnlineReaderSystemrepresents the body of our program.
We could implement
the class such
that it stores information about all the books, deals with user management, and refreshes the display, but

that would make this class rather hefty. Instead, we’ve chosen to tear off these components into Library,
UserManager, and Display classes.
1

public

class OnlineReaderSystem {

2

private

3

private UserManager userManager;

Library

library;

4

private Display display;

5

6

private Book activeBook;

?

private User activeUser;

g

9

public OnlineReaderSystem() {

18

userManager = new UserManager();

nl

library = new Library();

We?
13

display = new Display();
}

14
15

public

L6

public UserManager getUserManager()

Library getLibrary()

{

return library;

}

{ return userManager;
}

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

315

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
17

public Display getDisplay() { return display; }

18

13

public Book getActiveBook()

29

public void setActiveBook(Book book)

21

{ return activeBook;

}

{

activeBook = book;

22

display.displayBook(book)
;

23

}

24

25

public User getActiveUser() { return activeUser; }

26

public void setActiveUser(User user)

27

28

display .displayUser (user) ;

29

36

{

activeUser = user;
}

}

We then implement separate classes to handle the user manager, the library, and the display components.
1

public class Library {

2

private HashMap<Integer,

Book>

books;

a

4

public Book addBook(int id,

S)

String details)

{

if (books.containsKey(id)) {

6

return null;

?

}

8

Book book = new Book(id,

9

books.put(id,

198

details);

book)
;

return book;

11

}

12

13

public boolean remove(Book b)

{ return remove(b.getID());
}

at

public boolean remove(int id)

{

15

if (!books.containsKey(id))

{

return false;

16
17

}

18

books. remove (id) ;

19

return true;

2e

:

21

22

public Book find(int id)

23

return books.get(id);

24

25

{

}

}

25

27

public class UserManager {

28

private HashMap<Integer,

User> users;

23

38

public User addUser(int id, String details,

eal

int accountType)

if (users.containsKey(id)) {

32

return

null;

34

User user = new User(id, details, accountType)
;

35

users.put(id,

36

return user;

37

user);

}

38

39

public User find(int id) { return users.get(id);

49

public boolean

41

public boolean remove(int id)

316

remove(User u)

}

{ return remove(u.getID());
}
{

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

{

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design

42

if (fusers.containsKey(id)) {

43

return false;

44

}

45

users .remove(id) ;

46

return true;

A?
48

}
}

AS

5@

public class Display {

51

private Book activeBook;

52

private User activeUser;

53

private int pageNumber = Q;

54

55

public void displayUser(User user)

56

{

activeUser = user;

57

refreshUsername()
;
}

58
59

66

public void displayBook(Book book)

61

pageNumber = 0;

62

activeBook = book;

{

63

64

refreshTitle();

65

refreshDetails();

66

refreshPage();
}

67
68

68

public void turnPageForward()

78

{

pageNumber++
;

71

refreshPage();

72

}

73

74

public void turnPageBackward()

75

{

pageNumber
- - ;

76

refreshPage();

7?

}

78

7S

public void refreshUsername()

8e

public void

81

public void

refreshDetails()

82

public void

refreshPage()

refreshTitle()

{
{

{ /* updates username display */ }
/* updates title display */ }
{

/* updates details

/* updated

display */

}

page display */ }

83
}

The classes for User and Book simply hold data and provide little true functionality.
41

public class Book {

2

private int

3

private String details;

bookId;

4

5

public Book(int id,

6

bookId

7

details = det;

String det) {

= id;

8}
9

ie

public int getID()

11

public void setID(int id) { bookId = id;

{

return bookId;

}

12

public String getDetails()

13

public void setDetails(String d)

}

{ return details;

}

{ details = d;

}

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

317

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
14

}

15

16

public class User {

17

private int userId;

18

private String details;

19

private int accountType;

20

ys)

public void renewMembership() {

}

22

23

public User(int id,

24

userid = id;

25

this.details = details;

26

String details,

int accountType)

{

this.accountType = accountType;
}

27
28

29

/* Getters and

38

public int getID() { return userId;

31

public void setID(int id)

32

public String getDetails()

33

setters

*/

}

{ userId = id;

}

{

return details;

34

}

35

36

public void setDetails(String details) {

37

this.details = details;

38

}

39

public int getAccountType()

48

public void setAccountType(int t) { accountType = t;

41

{

return accountType;

}
}

}

The decision to tear off user management, library, and display into their own classes, when this functionality

could have been in the general OnlineReaderSystemi class, is an interesting one. Ona very small system,
making this decision could make the system overly complex. However, as the system grows, and more and
more functionality gets added to OnlineReaderSystem, breaking off such components prevents this
main class from getting overwhelmingly lengthy.

7.6

Jigsaw: Implement an NxN jigsaw puzzle. Design the data structures and explain an algorithm to

solve the puzzle. You can assume that you have a fitsWith method which, when passed two
puzzle edges, returns true if the two edges belong together.
pg 128

SOLUTION
We have a traditional jigsaw puzzle. The puzzle is grid-like, with rows and columns. Each piece is located in
a single row and column and has four edges. Each edge comes in one of three types: inner, outer, and flat.

A corner piece, for example, will have two flat edges and two other edges, which could be inner or outer.

318

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design

As we solve the jigsaw puzzle (manually or algorithmically), we'll need to store the position of each piece.
We could think about the position as absolute or relative:
-

Absolute Position: “This piece is located at position (12, 23)”

«

Relative Position: “| don’t know where this piece is actually located, but | know it is next to this other
piece.”

For our solution, we will use the absolute position.
We'll need classes to represent Puzzle, Piece, and Edge. Additionally, we'll want enums for the different
shapes (inner, outer, flat) and the orientations of the edges (left, top, right, bottom).
Puzzle will start off with a list of the pieces. When we solve the puzzle, we'll fill in an NxN solution
matrix of pieces.
Piece will have a hash table that maps from an orientation to the appropriate edge. Note that we might

rotate the piece at some point, so the hash table could change. The orientation of the edges will be arbitrarily assigned at first.

Edge will have just its shape and a pointer back to its parent piece. It will not keep its orientation.
A potential object-oriented design looks like the following:
4
2

public enum Orientation {
LEFT,

TOP,

RIGHT,

BOTTOM;

// Should stay in this order

3

4

public Orientation getOpposite()

5
6

case LEFT:

7

case RIGHT:

8

case TOP:

9

case BOTTOM:

18

default:

aE
12

{

switch (this) {
return

RIGHT;

return LEFT;

return BOTTOM;
return TOP;

return null;

}
}

i
14

18
16

public

enum Shape {

INNER,

OUTER,

FLAT;

17

18

public Shape getOpposite()

{

19

switch

(this)

{

22

case

INNER:

return OUTER;

21

case OUTER:

22

default:

return

INNER;

return null;

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

319

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
23

}
}

24
25

}

26

2?

public class Puzzle {

28

private LinkedList<Piece> pieces;

29

private Piece[][{] solution;

38

private int size;

/* Remaining pieces to put away.

*/

31
32

public

Puzzle(int size,

LinkedList<Piece>

pieces) {

...

}

33
34

35

/* Put piece into the solution,

36

private void

turn it appropriately,

setEdgeInSolution(LinkedList<Piece>

37

and remove from list.

pieces,

Edge edge,

int column, Orientation orientation)

38

Piece piece = edge.getParentPiece();

39

piece.setEdgeAsOrientation(edge,

43

pieces.remove(piece)
;

At

*/

int row,

{

orientation)
;

solution[row][column] = piece;

A2

}

43

44

/*

45

private boolean fitNextEdge(LinkedList<Piece> piecesToSearch,

Find the matching piece in piecesToSearch

and insert it

at

row,

column.

int row,

*/

int col);

46

47

/* Solve puzzle.

48

public boolean solve() {

43

*/

... }

}

58

51

public class Piece {

52

private HashMap<Orientation,

54

public Piece(Edge[]

edgeList)

/* Rotate edges

“numberRotations".

57

by

Edge> edges = new HashMap<Orientation,
{

...

Edge>();

}
*/

public void rotateEdgesBy(int numberRotations) {

...

}

58

59

public boolean isCorner() {

...

}

60

public boolean isBorder()

...

}

61

{

}

2

63

public class

Edge {

4

private Shape shape;

65

private Piece parentPiece;

66

public Edge(Shape shape)

67

public boolean fitswWith(Edge edge)

6s

{

...

}

{

...

}

}

Algorithm to Solve the Puzzle

Just asa kid might in solving a puzzle, we'll start with grouping the pieces into corner pieces, border pieces,
and inside pieces.

Once we've done that, we'll pick an arbitrary corner piece and put it in the top left corner. We will then walk
through the puzzle in order, filling in piece by piece. At each location, we search through the correct group
of pieces to find the matching piece. When we insert the piece into the puzzle, we need to rotate the piece
to fit correctly.

320

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design

Wwmn
A
ui PWN

The code below outlines this algorithm.
/* Find the matching piece within piecesToSearch and

insert it at

boolean fitNextEdge(LinkedList<Piece> piecesToSearch,
if

(row == © && column == @)

{

int row,

// On top left corner,

row,

column.

int column)

*/

{

just put in a piece

Piece p = piecesToSearch.remove()
;
orientTopLeftCorner
(p) ;
solution[@][®]

= p;

} else {

/* Get the right edge and list to match.
Piece pieceToMatch = column == © ?

*/

solution[row -

1][®]

:

solution[row][column Orientation orientationToMatch =

column == @

1];

? Orientation.BOTTOM

:

Orientation.RIGHT;

Edge edgeToMatch = pieceToMatch.getEdgewithOrientation(orientationToMatch)
;
/* Get matching edge.

*/

Edge edge = getMatchingEdge(edgeToMatch,
if (edge == null)
/* Insert

return false;

piece and edge.

piecesToSearch)
;

// Can't solve

*/

Orientation orientation = orientationToMatch.getOpposite()
;
setEdgeInSolution(piecesToSearch,

edge,

row,

column,

orientation);

i
return true;

23

24

}

25

26

boolean solve()

{

2?

/* Group pieces.

28

LinkedList<Piece> cornerPieces

*/

29

LinkedList<Piece> borderPieces = new LinkedList<Piece>();

= new LinkedList<Piece>();

30

LinkedList<Piece> insidePieces = new LinkedList<Piece>();

31

groupPieces(cornerPieces,

borderPieces,

insidePieces)
;

32
33

/* Walk through

34

solution = new Piece[size][size];

35

for

(int

for

36

puzzle,

row = @;

row <

(int column = @;

LinkedList<Piece>

37

borderPieces,

38

finding the

size;

piece

rowt+)

column <

joins

the previous one.

*/

{

size;

column+t+)

{

piecesToSearch = getPieceListToSearch(cornerPieces,

insidePieces,

row,

if (!fitNextEdge(piecesToSearch,

33

that

column);

row,

column))

{

return false;

40

44

}

42

}

J

43

44
return true;

45

46

}

The full code for this solution can be found in the downloadable code attachment.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

321

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
7.7._

Chat Server: Explain how you would design a chat server. In particular, provide details about the
various backend components, classes, and methods. What would be the hardest problems to solve?
pg 128

SOLUTION

Designing a chat server is a huge project, and it is certainly
far beyond the scope of what could be completed
in an interview. After all, teams of many people spend months or years creating a chat server. Part of your

job, as a candidate, is to focus on an aspect of the problem that is reasonably broad, but focused enough
that you could accomplish it during an interview. It need not match real life exactly, but it should bea fair
representation of an actual implementation.
For our purposes, we'll focus on the core user management and conversation aspects: adding a user,
creating a conversation, updating one's status, and so on. In the interest of time and space, we will not go
into the networking aspects of the problem, or how the data actually gets pushed out to the clients.
We will assume that “friending” is mutual; | am only your contact if you are mine. Our chat system will
support both group chat and one-on-one (private) chats. We will not worry about voice chat, video chat,

orfile transfer.

What specific actions does it need to support?
This is also something to discuss with your interviewer, but here are some ideas:
-

Signing online and offline.

«

Add requests (sending, accepting, and rejecting).

«

Updating a status message.

«

Creating private and group chats.

«

Adding new messages to private and group chats.

This is just a partial list. If you have more time, you can add more actions.

What can we learn about these requirements?

We must have a concept of users, add request status, online status, and messages.

What are the core components of the system?

The system would likely consist of a database, a set of clients, and a set of servers. We won't include these
parts in our object-oriented design, but we can discuss the overall view of the system.
The database will be used for more permanent storage, such as the userlist or chat archives. A SQL database
is a good bet, or, if we need more scalability, we could potentially use BigTable or a similar system.

For communication between the client and servers, using XML will work well. Although it’s not the most
compressed format (and you should point this out to your interviewen), it’s nice because it’s easy for both
computers and humans to read. Using XML will make your debugging efforts easier—and that matters a
lot.

The server will consist ofa set of machines. Data will be split across machines, requiring us to potentially hop
from machine to machine. When possible, we will try to replicate some data across machines to minimize

the lookups. One major design constraint here is to prevent having a single point of failure. For instance,

322

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
if one machine controlled all the user sign-ins, then we'd cut off millions of users potentially if a single
machine lost network connectivity.

What are the key objects and methods?
The key objects of the system will be a concept of users, conversations, and status messages. We've imple-

mented a UserManager class. If we were looking more at the networking aspects of the problem, or a
different component, we might have instead dived into those objects.
4

/* UserManager serves as a central place for core user actions.

4

public class UserManager {

2

private

3

/* maps from a user id to a

4

private HashMap<Integer,

*/

static UserManager instance;

user */

User> usersByld;

5

6

/* maps from an account name to a user */

7

private HashMap<String,

User>

usersByAccountName
;

8

e

/* maps from the user id to an online user */

18

private HashMap<Integer,

User> onlineUsers;

aii

42

public static UserManager getInstance()

ne

if (instance == null)

14

{

instance = new UserManager();

return instance;

iss)

}

16

1?

public void addUser(User fromUser,

18

public void approveAddRequest(AddRequest

18

public void

req)

{

...

}

28

public void userSignedOn(String accountName)

{

...

}

21

public void userSignedOff(String accountName)

22

String toAccountName)

rejectAddRequest(AddRequest

req)

{

{

...

...

{

...

}

}

}

}

The method receivedAddRequest, in the User class, notifies User B that User A has requested
to add him. User B approves or rejects the request (via

UserManager .approveAddRequest

or

rejectAddRequest), and the UserManager takes care of adding the users to each other's contact lists.
The method sentAddRequest in the User class is called by UserManager to add an AddRequest to

User A’s list of requests. So the flow is:
1. User A clicks “add user’
on the client, and it gets sent to the server.

2. User AcallsrequestAddUser(User B).
3. This method calls UserManager . addUser.
4

. UserManager calls both User A.sentAddRequest and

User B.receivedAddRequest.

ow! HO

Ul Bm

la

Ne be

Again, this is just one way of designing these interactions. It is not the only way, or even the only “good” way.
public class User {
private int id;

private UserStatus status = null;
/* maps from the other participant’s user id to the chat */
private HashMap<Integer,

PrivateChat>

privateChats
;

/* list of group chats */

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

323

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
8

private ArrayList<GroupChat> groupChats;

13

11

/* maps from the other person’s user id to the add request */

12

private HashMap<Integer,

AddRequest>

receivedAddRequests
;

foe:

14

/* maps from the other person’s user id to the add

15

private HashMap<Integer, AddRequest> sentAddRequests;

request */

16

1?

/* maps from the user id to user object */

1%

private HashMap<Integer,

User> contacts;

19

28

private String accountName;

2a

private String fullName;

22

23

public User(int id,

24

public boolean sendMessageToUser(User to,

String accountName,

25

public boolean sendMessageToGroupChat(int id,

26

public void setStatus(UserStatus status)

27

public UserStatus getStatus()

{

...

String fullName)

{

...

}

String content){

...

}

{

String cnt){...}

...

}

}

28

public boolean addContact(User user)

29

public void receivedAddRequest(AddRequest req) {

{

...

}

...}

38

public void sentAddRequest(AddRequest req) {

...

}

{

21

public void removeAddRequest(AddRequest req)

32

public void requestAddUser(String accountName)

33

public void addConversation(PrivateChat conversation)

{

34

public void addConversation(GroupChat conversation) {

...

35

public int getid()

36

public String getAccountName()

{

...

{

...

37

public String getFullName()

...

}

...

{

}

...

}
...

}

}

}

{

}

38}

The Conversation class is implemented as an abstract class, since all Conversations must be either a
GroupChat ora PrivateChat, and since these two classes each have their own functionality.
1

public abstract class Conversation {

2

protected ArrayList<User> participants;

3

protected int id;

4

protected ArrayList<Message>

messages;

5

6

public ArrayList<Message> getMessages()

{

...

7

public boolean addMessage(Message m)

...

}

8

public int getId() {

9

{

}

... }

}

16

11

public class GroupChat extends Conversation {

12

public void removeParticipant(User user) {

...

413

public void addParticipant(User user)

}

{

...

}

}
14
45

16

public class PrivateChat extends Conversation {

17

public PrivateChat(User user1,

18

public User getOtherParticipant(User primary) {

SUS)

User user2)

{

...

...

eee

28

21

public class Message {

22

private String

23

private Date date;

24

public Message(String content,

324

content;

Date date)

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

{

...

}

}

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
25

public String getContent()

26

public Date getDate() {

27

{

...

...

}

}

}

AddRequest and UserStatus are simple classes with little functionality. Their main purpose is to group

be

public class AddRequest {

wh

private User fromUser
;

Wi te

data that other classes will act upon.

private Date date;

private User toUser;
status;

GW

public AddRequest(User from,

0

OS

RequestStatus

User to,

public User getFromUser()

{

19

public User getToUser()

{

...

11

public Date getDate()

...

public RequestStatus getStatus()

{

...

{

Date date)

...

{

...

}

}

}

}

}

ioe
13

14

public class UserStatus {

15

private String message;

16

private

17

public UserStatus(UserStatusType type,

18

public UserStatusType getStatusType()

ie
aa

UserStatusType type;

public String getMessage()

{

...

String message)
{

...

{

...

}

}

}

i

21

22

public enum UserStatusType {

23

24

Offline,

Away,

Idle, Available,

Busy

}

25

26

public enum RequestStatus {

27

28

Unread,

Read,

Accepted,

Rejected

}

The downloadable code attachment provides a more detailed look at these methods, including implemen-

tations for the methods shown above.

What problems would be the hardest to solve (or the most interesting)?

The following questions may be interesting to discuss with your interviewer further.
Q1: How do we know if someone is online—I mean, really, really know?

While we would like users to tell us when they sign off, we can't know for sure. A user's connection might
have died, for example. To make sure that we know when a user has signed off, we might try regularly
pinging the client to make sure it’s still there.

Q2: How do we deal with conflicting information?
We have some information stored in the computers memory and some in the database. What happens if

they get out of sync? Which oneis “right”?

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

325

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
Q3: How do we make our server scale?
While we designed out chat server without worrying—too much- about scalability, in real life this would
be a concern. We'd need to split our data across many servers, which would increase our concern about
out-of-sync data.

Q4: How we do prevent denial of service attacks?
Clients can push data to us—what if they try to DOS (denial of service) us? How do we prevent that?

7.8

Othelfo: Othello is played as follows: Each Othello piece is white on one side and black on the other.
Whena piece is surrounded by its opponents on both the left and right sides, or both the top and
bottom, it is said to be captured and its color is flipped. On your turn, you must capture at least one
of your opponent's pieces. The game ends when either user has no more valid moves. The win is

assigned to the person with the most pieces. Implement the object-oriented design for Othello.
pg 128

SOLUTION

Let’s start with an example. Suppose we have the following moves in an Othello game:

1. Initialize the board with two black and two white pieces in the center. The black pieces are placed at the
upper left hand and lower right hand corners.
2.

Play a black piece at (row 6, column 4). This flips the piece at (row 5, column 4) from white to black.

3. Play a white piece at (row 4, column 3). This flips the piece at (row 4, column 4) from black to white.

OGIO
OO

This sequence of moves leads to the board below.

The core objects in Othello are probably the game, the board, the pieces (black or white), and the players.
How do we represent these with elegant object-oriented design?

Should BlackPiece and WhitePiece be classes?
At first, we might think we want to have a BLackPiece class anda WhitePiece class, which inherit from
an abstract Piece. However, this is probably not a great idea. Each piece may flip back and forth between

colors frequently, so continuously destroying and creating what is really the same object is probably not
wise. It may be better to just have a Piece class, with a flag in it representing the current color.

Do we need separate Board and Game classes?
Strictly speaking, it may not be necessary to have both a Game object and a Board object. Keeping the
objects separate allows us to have a logical separation between the board (which contains just logic

326

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
involving placing pieces) and the game (which involves times, game flow, etc.). However, the drawback is
that we are adding extra layers to our program. A function may call out to a method in Game, only to have

it immediately call Board. We have made the choice below to keep Game and Board separate, but you
should discuss this with your interviewer.

Who keeps score?

We know we should probably have some sort of score keeping for the number of black and white pieces.
But who should maintain this information? One could make a strong argument for either Game or Board
maintaining this information, and possibly even for Piece (in static methods). We have implemented this
with Board holding this information, since it can be logically grouped with the board. It is updated by
Piece or Board calling the colorChanged and colorAdded methods within Board.

Should Game be a Singleton class?
Implementing Game as a singleton class has the advantage of making it easy for anyone to call a method

within Game, without having to pass around references to the Game object.
However, making Game a singleton means it can only be instantiated once. Can we make this assumption?
You should discuss this with your interviewer.

One possible design for Othello is below.
1

public enum Direction {

2

left,

right,

up,

down

ae
A

S

public enum Color {

6

White,

Black

7}
8

9

public

class Game {

18

private Player[]

11

private static Game instance;

players;

12

private Board board;

13

private final int

14

private final int COLUMNS

ROWS = 10;
= 19;

15

private Game() {

16
17

board = new Board(ROWS,

18

players = new Player[2];

ia

players[@] = new Player(Color.Black);

2G

players[1]

21

COLUMNS)
;

= new Player(Color.white)
;

}

22

22

public

24

static Game getinstance()

if (instance == null)

25

{

instance = new Game();

return instance;

26

}

ae

28

public Board getBoard()

29
38

31

{

return board;
}

}

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

327

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
The Board class manages the actual pieces themselves. it does not handle much of the game play, leaving
that up to the Game class.
4

public class

Board {

a

private int blackCount = @;

3

private int whiteCount = 0;

4

private Piece[][]

board;

5

6

public Board(int rows,

?

int columns)

{

board = new Piece[rows |[columns ];

8

ii

3

19

public void initialize()

11

/*

42

{

initialize center black and white pieces */

i

13

i4

/* Attempt to place a piece of color color at (row,

as

* were successful.

16

column).

Return true if we

*/

public boolean placeColor(int row,

int column, Color color) {

1?

18

}

13

22

/*

21

private int flipSection(int row,

Flips pieces starting at

(row,

column)

and proceeding in direction d.

int column,

Color color,

Direction d)

{

*/
...

}

22

23

public int getScoreForColor(Color c)

24

if

25

(c == Color.Black)

else

26

{

return blackCount;

return whiteCount;

}

27
28

/*

29

*

30

Update

board

with

score of opposite

additional
color.

newPieces

pieces

of color

newColor.

Decrease

*/

public void updateScore(Color newColor,

int newPieces)

{

...

}

31}

As described earlier, we implement the black and white pieces with the Piece class, which has a simple
Color variable representing whether it is a black or white piece.
public

1 OO NI WD
11

class

Piece {

private Color color;

public Piece(Color c)
public void flip()
if

{

color = c;

}

{

(color == Color.Black)

color = Color.wWhite;

else color = Color.Black;

}
public Color getColor()

{

return color;

}

}

The Player holds only a very limited amount of information. It does not even hold its own score, but it
does have a method one can call to get the score. Player .getScore()
to retrieve this value.
1

public class Player {

2

private Color color;

3

public Player(Color c) { color = c; }

4

5

public int getScore()

328

{

...

}

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

will call out to the Game object

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
6

7

public boolean playPiece(int r,

8

int c) {

return Game.getInstance().getBoard().placeColor(r,

9

c,

color);

}

18

aa
12

public Color getColor() { return color;

}

}

A fully functioning (automated) version of this code can be found in the downloadable code attachment.
Remember that in many problems, what you did is less important than why you did it. Your interviewer
probably doesn't care much whether you chose to implement Game as a singleton or not, but she probably

does care that you took the time to think about it and discuss the trade-offs.

7.9

Circular Array: Implement aCircularArray class that supports an array-like data structure which

can be efficiently rotated. If possible, the class should use a generic type (also called a template), and

should support iteration via the standard For (Obj o

:

circularArray) notation.
pg 128

SOLUTION

This problem really has two parts to it. First, we need to implement the CircularArray class. Second, we
need to support iteration. We will address these parts separately.

implementing the CircularArray class

One way to implement the CircularArray class is to actually shift the elements each time we call

rotate(int shiftRight ). Doing this is, of course, not very efficient.
Instead, we can just create a member variable head which points to what should be conceptually viewed
as the start of the circular array. Rather than shifting around the elements in the array, we just increment
head by shiftRight.
The code below implements this approach.
1

public class CircularArray<T> {

2

private T[]

3

private int head = Q;

items;

4

5

public CircularArray(int size)

6

7

items = (T[])

{

new Object[size];

}

3

8

private int convert(int index) {

18

if (index < 9)

ii
ne

}

13

return

14

{

index += items.length;

(head + index) % items.length;

}

aS

16

public void rotate(int shiftRight)

17

18

head

=

{

convert(shiftRight)
;

}

is

28

21

public T get(int i)

{

if (i < @ || i >= items.length) {

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

329

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
22

throw new java. lang.IndexOutOfBoundsException(“...”);

23

i;

24

return items[convert(i)
];

25

}

26

27

public

28
29

3e@

void

set(int

items[convert(i)]

i,

T item)

{

= item;

}

}

There are a number of things here which are easy to make mistakes on, such as:

-

In Java, we cannot create an array of the generic type. Instead, we must either cast the array or define
items to be of type List<T>. For simplicity, we have done the former.

+

The &% operator will return a negative value when we do negValue

%

posVal. For example, -8

%

3 is -2. This is different from how mathematicians would define the modulus function. We must add

items. length toa negative index to get the correct positive result.
-

Weneed to be sure to consistently convert the raw index to the rotated index. For this reason, we have
implemented a Convert function that is used by other methods. Even the rotate function uses
convert. This is a good example of code reuse.

Now that we have the basic code for CircularArray out of the way, we can focus on implementing an
iterator.

Implementing the Iterator Interface
The second part of this question asks us to implement the CircularArray class such that we can do the

following:
4.

©6CircularArray<String>

2

for

(String s

:

array)

array =

{

...

...

}

Implementing this requires implementing the Iterator interface. The details of this implementation
apply to Java, but similar things can be implemented in other languages.
To implement the Iterator interface, we need to do the following:

-

Modify the CircularArray<T> definition to add implements Iterable<T>. This will also require

us to add an iterator() method toCircularArray<T>.
«

Create a CircularArrayIterator<T> which implements Iterator<T>. This will also require us

to implement, inthe CircularArrayIterator, the methods hasNext(),next(),andremove().
Once we've done the above items, the for loop will “magically” work.
In the code below, we have removed the aspects of CircularArray which were identical to the earlier
implementation,
2

= =public

3

class CircularArray<T>

implements

public Iterator<T> iterator()

4

Iterable<T>

{

{

return new CircularArrayiterator<T>(this)
;

5

t

6

7

private class CircularArray{terator<TI> implements Iterator<TI>{

g

/* current reflects the offset from the rotated head,

=

* start of the raw array. */

18

330

private

int

_current

=

-1;

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

not from the actual

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design

private TI[] _items;

41
12

public CircularArrayIterator(CircularArray<TI> array)
{

13

_items = array.items;

14

}

15
16

1?

@Override

18

public boolean hasNext()

{

return _current < items.length - 1;

19

}

28

21
22

@Override

23

public TI next() {

24

_current++;

25

TI item = (TI) _items[convert(_current)
];
return item;

26

}

27

28
29

@Override

36

public void remove()

}

32

33

34

{

throw new UnsupportedOperationException(“...”);

31

}

}

in the above code, note that the first iteration of the for loop will callhasNext() and then next ().Be very
sure that your implementation will return the correct values here.
When you get a problem like this one in an interview, there’s a good chance you don’t remember exactly

what the various methods and interfaces are called. In this case, work through the problem as well as you
can. If you can reason out what sorts of methods one might need, that alone will show a good degree of
competency.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

331

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
7.10

Minesweeper: Design and implement a text-based Minesweeper game. Minesweeper is the classic

single-player computer game where an NxN grid has B mines (or bombs) hidden across the grid. The
remaining cells are either blank or have a number behind them. The numbers reflect the number of
bombs in the surrounding eight cells. The user then uncovers a cell. If it is a bomb, the player loses.

if itis

anumber, the number is exposed. If it is a blank cell, this cell and all adjacent blank cells (up to

and including the surrounding numeric cells) are exposed.
The player wins when all non-bomb cells

are exposed. The player can also flag certain places as potential bombs. This doesn't affect game
play, other than to block the user from accidentally clicking a cell that is thought to have a bomb.
(Tip for the reader: if you're not familiar with this game, please play a few rounds online first.)

This is a fully exposed board with 3.

| The player initially sees a board with

bombs. This is not shown to the user.
mn

Ore

0

1]

* 7] 1

nothing exposed
.

os

2)2]2

71

1]

*

1]

171
1}

1)

1

1)

*]1

Clicking on cell (row = 1, col = 0)

The user wins when everything other

would expose this:

than bombs has been exposed.

1

1}

1

1

2

2

1

1

1

1]

17]1

141

pg 129

SOLUTION

Writing an entire game—even a text-based one—would take far longer than the allotted time you have
in an interview. This doesn't mean that it’s not fair game as a question. It just means that your interviewer's
expectation will not be that you actually write all of this in an interview. It also means that you need to focus
on getting the key ideas—or structure—out.

Let's start with what the classes are. We certainly want a Ce1] class as well as a Board class. We also probably want to have a Game class.

We could potentially merge Board and Game together, but it’s probably best to keep them
separate. Err towards more organization, not less. Board can hold the list of Cel 1 objects and do
some basic moves with flipping over cells. Game will hold the game state and handle user input.

332

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
Design: Cell

Cell will need to have knowledge of whether it’s a bomb, a number, or a blank. We could potentially

subclass Ce 1] to hold this data, but {‘m not sure that offers us much benefit.
We could also have anenum TYPE {BOMB, NUMBER, BLANK} todescribe the type of cell. We've chosen
not to do this because BLANK is really a type of NUMBER cell, where the number is 0. It's sufficient to just
have an isBomb flag.

It’s okay to have made different choices here. These aren't the only good choices. Explain the choices you
make and their tradeoffs with your interviewer.
We also need to store state for whether the cell is exposed or not. We probably do not want to subclass
Cell for ExposedCell and UnexposedCe11.
This is a bad idea because Board holds a reference to the
cells, and we'd have to change the reference when we flip a cell. And then what if other objects reference
the instance of Cell?
It's better to just have a boolean flag for isExposed. We'll do a similar thing for isGuess.
4

public class Cell {

2

private int

3

private int column;

row;

4

private

5

private int

6

private boolean

7

private boolean isGuess = false;

boolean isBomb;

number;
isExposed

= false;

8

2)

public Cell(int r,

int c) {

... }

18

11

/* Getters

and

setters

for above variables.

*/

12

13
14

public

15

boolean flip()

{

isExposed = true;

16

return

17

!isBomb;

}

18

18

public boolean toggleGuess()

28

if

21

(!isExposed)
isGuess

22

=

{

{

!isGuess;

}

23

return

24

isGuess;

}

25
26

27

/*

Full code can

be found in downloadable code solutions.

*/

}

Design: Board
Board will need to have an array of all the Ce11 objects. A two-dimension array will work just fine.

We'll probably want Board to keep state of how many unexposed cells there are. We'll track this as we go,
so we dont have to continuously count it.
Board will also handle some of the basic algorithms:
*

Initializing the board and laying out the bombs.

*

Flipping a cell.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com| 6th Edition

333

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
-

Expanding blank areas.

It will receive the game plays from the Game object and carry them out. it will then need to return the
result of the play, which could be any of {clicked a bomb and lost, clicked out of bounds, clicked an already
exposed area, clicked a blank area and still playing, clicked a blank area and won, clicked a number and

won}. This is really two different items that need to be returned: successful (whether or not the play was

successfully made) and a game state (won, lost, playing). We'll use an additional GamePlayResult to
return this data.

We'll also use a GameP Lay class to hold the move that the player plays. We need to use a row, column,
and then a flag to indicate whether this was an actual flip or the user was just marking this as a “quess’”
at a
possible bomb.
The basic skeleton of this class might look something like this:
1

public class Board {

2

private int nRows;

3

private int nColumns;

4

private int nBombs

5

private Cell[][]

6

private Cell[]

?

private int numUnexposedRemaining
;

= Q;

cells;

bombs;

8

g

public

Board(int

r,

int c,

int

b)

{

...

}

16

11

private void initializeBoard() {

12

private boolean flipCell(Cell cell)

13

public void expandBlank(Cell

14

public UserPlayResult

15

public int getNumRemaining()

16

...

cell)

}
{

{

...
...

}
}

playFlip(UserPlay play)
{

{

...

}

return numUnexposedRemaining;

}

}

17

18

public class UserPlay {

18

private int row;

28

private int column;

24

private boolean isGuess;

22

/* constructor,

z3

getters,

setters.

*/

3}

24

25

public

Ze

class

UserPlayResult

27

private Game.GameState

28

/* constructor,

23

{

private boolean successful;
resultingState;

getters,

setters.

*/

}

Design: Game

The Game class will store references to the board and hold the game state. It also takes the user input and
public class Game {

public enum GameState { WON,
private

Board

private

int

LOST,

board;

TY

rows;

private int columns;

CO wn

Mm

U2

Be

sends it off
to Board.

private int bombs;
private GameState state;

334

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

RUNNING }

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
$

18

public Game(int r,

int c,

int b)

{

...

}

can

412

public boolean initialize() {

13

public boolean start()

14

private boolean playGame()

{

...

... }
}

{

...

} // Loops until game is over.

i}

Algorithms

This is the basic object-oriented design in our code. Our interviewer might ask us now to implement a few
of the most interesting algorithms.
In this case, the three interesting algorithms is the initialization (placing the bombs randomly), setting the
values of the numbered cells, and expanding the blank region.
Placing the Bombs
To place the bombs, we could randomly pick
a cell and then place a bombif it’s still available, and otherwise
pick a different location for it. The problem with this is that if there are a lot of bombs, it could get very slow.
We could end up ina

situation where we repeatedly pick cells with bombs.

To get around this, we could take an approach similar to the card deck shuffling problem (pg 531). We
could place the K bombs in the first K cells and then shuffle all the cells around.
Shuffling an array operates by iterating through the array from i = @ through N-1. For each i, we pick a

random index between i and N-1 and swap it with that index.
To shuffle a grid, we do a very similar thing, just converting the index into a row and column location.
1

void

shuffleBoard()
nCells

{

2

int

= nRows *

3

Random random = new Random();

4

for

(int index1 = @;

nColumns;

indexl <

nCells;

indexi++)

5

int index2 = index1 + random.nextInt(nCells -

6

if

(index1

!= index2)

7

/* Get cell at

g

int

rowl

=

/

index1);

{

index1.

index1

{

*/

nColumns;

3

int columni =

1@

Cell celll = cells[row1][column1];

(index1 -

row1 * nColumns) % nColumns;

Ti

12

/*

13

int

Get

cell

row2 =

at

index2.

index2

/

*/

nColumns;

14

int column2 = (index2 -

is

Cell cell2 = cells[row2][column2];

row2 * nColumns) % nColumns;

16

17

/* Swap.

is

cells[row1][column1] = cell2;

*/

15

cell12.setRowAndColumn(row1,

28

cells[row2][column2] = cell1;

21

cell1.setRowAndColumn(row2,

ae

column2)
;

}

23

24

column
1) ;

}

}

CrackingTheCoding!nterview.com
| 6th Edition

| 335

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
Setting the Numbered Cells
Once the bombs have been placed, we need to set the values of the numbered cells. We could go through
each cell and check how many bombs are around it. This would work, but it’s actually a bit slower than is
necessary.

Instead, we can go to each bomb and increment each cell around it. For example, cells with 3 bombs will get
incrementNumber called three times on them and will wind up with a number of 3.
1

/* Set the cells around the bombs to the right number. Although the bombs have

2

* been shuffled,

3

the reference in the bombs array is still to same object.

void setNumberedCells()

4

int[][]

2
8

deltas

= {

*/

{

// Offsets of 8 surrounding cells

ole = had tod, 8}, Sails, Tye
{ 0, -1},
{ oe I,

?

{ 1, ail { 1, Qe}, { 1, 1}

}5

8

3

for

18

(Cell bomb

:

bombs)

{

int row = bomb.getRow();

il

int col = bomb.getColumn()
;

12

for

(int[]

delta

:

deltas)

13

int r = row + delta[@];

14

int c = col + delta[1];

15

if (inBounds(r,

16

{

cells[r][c].incrementNumber
() ;

17

}

18

}

13

20

c))

{

+

}

Expanding a Blank Region
Expanding the blank region could be done either iteratively or recursively. We implemented it iteratively.

You can think about this algorithm like this: each blank cell is surrounded by either blank cells or numbered
cells (never a bomb). All need to be flipped. But, if you're flipping a blank cell, you also need to add the blank
cells to a queue, to flip their neighboring cells.
1

void expandBlank(Cell cell)

2

int[][]

3

deltas

{

= {

{-1, -1}, {-1, 8}, {-1, i

3

}s

6

{ Q; Shia
if Q, 1
{ 1, Ee if 1, o}; { 1, 1}

7

8

Queue<Cell> toExplore = new LinkedList<Cell>();

9

toExplore.add(cell)
;

19

Teil
12

while (!toExplore.isEmpty()) {
Cell current = toeExplore.remove()
;

13

14

for (int[]

15

int

16

int c = current.getColumn()

r =

delta

:

deltas)

current.getRow()

{
+ delta[@];

+ delta[1];

a?

18

if (inBounds(r,

19

Cell

32

if

21

336

c))

{

neighbor = cells[r][c];

(flipCell(neighbor)

&& neighbor.isBlank())

toExplore.add(neighbor)
;

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

{

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
22

}

23

}

24

}

25
26

}
}

You could instead implement this algorithm recursively. In this algorithm, rather than adding the cell to a
queue, you would make a recursive call.
Your implementation of these algorithms could vary substantially depending on your class design.

7.11

File System: Explain the data structures and algorithms that you would use to design an in-memory

file system. illustrate with an example in code where possible.
pg 129

SOLUTION

Many candidates may see this problem and instantly panic. A file system seems so low level!

However, there's no need to panic. If we think through the components of a file system, we can tackle this
problem just like any other object-oriented design question.
A file system, in its most simplistic version, consists of Files and Directories. Each Directory
contains a set of Files and Directories. Since Files and Directories share so many characteristics, we've implemented them such that they inherit from the same class, Entry.
1

public abstract class

Entry {

Py

protected Directory parent;

eS

protected long created;

4

protected

5

protected long lastAccessed;

6

protected String name;

long lastUpdated;

7

8

public Entry(String n,

S

name = n;

19

parent = p;

Directory p)

{

Li

created = System.currentTimeMillis();

12

lastUpdated = System.currentTimeMillis();

13

14

lastAccessed

= System.currentTimeMillis();

}

15

16

public boolean delete()

1?

if (parent == null)

18
19

{
return false;

return parent.deleteEntry(this)
;
}

28

2k

public abstract int size();

22

23

public String getFullPath()

24

if (parent == null)

25
26

{

return name;

else return parent.getFullPath()

+ “/” + name;

}

af

28

/* Getters and setters.

29

public long getCreationTime()

*/

38

public long getLastUpdatedTime()

mi

public long getLastAccessedTime()

{

return

{

created;

}

return lastUpdated;

}

{ return LastAccessed;

}

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

337

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
32

public void changeName(String n)

33

public String getName()

34

{

{ name = n;

return name;

}

}

}

35

36

public class File extends Entry {

37

private String content;

38

private

int size;

public

File(String

39

4e

41

super(n,

42

n,

Directory p,

int sz)

{

Pp);

size = SZ;

43

}

44

45

public int size()

46

public String getContents()

47

public void

a)

{

return size;
{

}

return content;

setContents(String c)

{

a

49

5@

public

51

class Directory extends Entry {

protected ArrayList<Entry>

contents;

52

53

public Directory(String n, Directory p)

54

super(n,

55

56

{

Pp);

contents = new ArrayList<Entry>();

}

57

58

public int

size()

5S

int size = @;

60

for (Entry e

61

{

contents)

{

Size += e.size();

62

}

63

return size;

64.

:

}

65

66

public int numberOfFiles() {

67

int

count = @;

68

for

(Entry e

69

if

:

contents)

{

(e instanceof Directory)

{

70

count++;

ra

Directory d = (Directory) e;

72
}

a file

else

if

(e instanceof File)

{

count++;

74
75

}

76

}

2?

73%

// Directory counts as

count += d.numberOfFiles();

73

return

count;

}

79

80

public boolean deleteEntry(Entry entry)

81
82

return contents.remove(entry)
;
}

&5
84

public void addEntry(Entry entry)

85
86

contents.add(entry)
;
}

37

338

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

{

}

content = c;

{

}

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
88
89

protected ArrayList<Entry> getContents() {

return contents;

}

}

Alternatively, we could have implemented Directory such that it contains separate lists for files and

subdirectories. This makes the numberOfFiles() method a bit cleaner, since it doesn’t need to use the
instanceof operator, but it does prohibit us from cleanly sorting files and directories by dates or names.

7.12.

Hash Table: Design and implement a hash table which uses chaining (linked lists) to handle
collisions.

pg 129
SOLUTION

Suppose we are implementing a hash table that looks like Hash<K, V>. That is, the hash table maps from
objects of type K to objects of type V.
At first, we might think our data structure would look something like this:
2

class Hash<K, V> {

2

LinkedList<V>[]

3

public void put(K key, V value)

items;

4

public V get(K key) {

...

{

...

}

}

SS
Note that items is an array of linked lists, where items [i ] is a linked list of all objects with keys that map
to index i (that is, all the objects that collided at i).
This would seem to work until we think more deeply about collisions.

Suppose we have a very simple hash function that uses the string length.
1

int hashCodeOfkey(K key)

2

2

{

return key.toString().length() % items. length;

ti

The keys j im and bob will map to the same index in the array, even though they are different keys.
We need
to search through the linked list to find the actual object that corresponds to these keys. But how would we
do that? All we’ve stored in the linked list is the value, not the original key.

This is why we need to store both the value and the original key.

One way to do that is to create another object called Cel] which pairs keys and values. With this implementation, our linked list is of type Ce11.
The code below uses this implementation.
1

public

2

/*

3

4

class Hasher<K, V> {

Linked

list

node

* access to this.

class.

Used only within

No one else

should get

*/

private static class LinkedListNode<K, V> {

5

public LinkedListNode<K,

V> next;

&

public LinkedListNode<K,

V> prev;

?

public K key;

8

public V value;

5

public LinkedListNode(K k, Vv) {

i8

key = k;

11

value

12
13

hash table.

Implemented as doubly linked list.

= v;

}
}

14

CrackingTheCodingIinterview.com | 6th Edition

339

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
45

private ArrayList<LinkedListNode<K, V>> arr;

16

public Hasher(int capacity)

17

{

/* Create list of linked lists

18

* values,

at a particular size.

Fill list with null

as it's the only way to make the array the desired size. */

19

arr = new ArrayList<LinkedListNode<K,

20

arr.ensureCapacity(capacity);

// Optional optimization

21

for

i++)

a

i <

capacity;

{

arr.add(null);

23

24.

(int i = 0;

V>>();

}

}

25

26

/*

27

public void

Insert

key and value
put(K key,

into hash table.
V value)

*/

{

28

LinkedListNode<K,

V> node = getNodeForKey(key)
;

29

if

{ // Already there

(node

!= null)

30

node.value = value;

ers

return;

32

// just update the value.

}

3}

34

node = new LinkedListNode<K,

35

int index = getIndexForkey(key)
;

36

if

37

!= null)

value);

{

node.next = arr.get(index)
;

38

node.next.prev = node;

39

}

40
Al

(arr.get(index)

V>(key,

arr.set(index,

node);

}

42

43

/* Remove

44

public void remove(K key)

node for key.

45

LinkedListNode<K,

4&

if (node.prev

4?

*/

!= null)

node.prev.next

{

V> node = getNodeForkKey(key)
;
=

{

node.next;

48

} else {

49

/*

50

int hashKey = getIndexForKkey(key)
;

51

Removing head

-

arr.set(hashKey,

52

update.

*/

node.next)
;

;

53

54

if (node.next

55
56

57

!= null)

{

node.next.prev = node.prev;
}

}

58

59

/* Get value for key.

60

public V get(K key)

61

LinkedListNode<K,

62

return node

63

*/

{
V>

== null

node = getNodeForKey(key)
;
?

null

:

node.value;

}

64

65

/* Get linked list node associated with a given key.

66

private LinkedListNode<K,

6?

V> getNodeForKkey(K key)

int index = getIndexForkey(key);

68

LinkedListNode<K,

69

while (current !=null) {

70

340

if

V> current = arr.get(index)
;

(current.key == key)

{

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

{

*/

Solutions to Chapter 7 | Object-Oriented Design
71

return current;

72

}

73

current = current.next;

74

}

7S

76

return null;

}

V7

78

/* Really naive function to map a key to an index.

73

public int getIndexForKkey(K key) {

88
8i

*/

return Math.abs(key.hashCode() % arr.size());
}

82
}
83

Alternatively, we could implement a similar data structure (a key->value lookup) with a binary search tree

as the underlying data structure. Retrieving an element will no longer be 0(1) (although, technically, this
implementation is not O(1) if there are many collisions), but it prevents us from creating an unnecessarily
large array to hold items.

CrackingTheCoding!nterview.com | 6th Edition

341

Solutions to Recursion and Dynamic Programming

8.1

Triple Step: A child is running up a staircase with n steps and can hop either 1 step, 2 steps, or 3
steps at a time. Implement a method to count how many possible ways the child can run up the
stairs.
pg 134

SOLUTION
Let’s think about this with the following question: What is the very last step that is done?
The very last hop the child makes—the one that lands her on the nth step—was either a 3-step hop, a
2-step hop, or a 1-step hop.

How many ways then are there to get up to the nth step? We don’t know yet, but we can relate it to some
subproblems.

If we thought about all of the paths to the nth step, we could just build them off the paths to the three
previous steps. We can get up to the nth step by any of the following:
-

Going to the (n-1)st step and hopping 1 step.

+

Going to the (n-2)nd step and hopping 2 steps.

«

Going to the (n-3)rd step and hopping 3 steps.

Therefore, we just need to add the number of these paths together.

Be very careful here. A lot of people want to multiply them. Multiplying one path with another would signify
taking one path and then taking the other. That’s not what's happening here.

Brute Force Solution
This is a fairly straightforward algorithm to implement recursively. We just need to follow logic like this:
countWays(n-1) + countWays(n-2) + countWays(n-3)

The one tricky bit is defining the base case. If we have 0 steps to go (we’re currently standing on the step),
are there zero paths to that step or one path?
That is, what is countWays(@)? Is it 1 or 0?

You could define it either way. There is no“right” answer here.
However, it’s a lot easier to define it as 1. If you defined it as 0, then you would need some additional base
cases (or else you'd just wind up with a series of Os getting added).

342

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming

WN

} else if (n == @) {
} else {

}

0

ui &

{

if (n < 0)

“Ew

int countWays(int n)

@

Be

A simple implementation of this code is below.

return

{

@;3

return 1;

return countWays(n-1) + countWays(n-2) + countWays(n-3);

}

Like the Fibonacci problem, the runtime of this algorithm is exponential (roughly 0(3")), since each call
branches out to three more calls.

Memoization Solution

The previous solution for countWays is called many times for the same values, which is unnecessary. We

can fix this through memoization.
Essentially, if weve seen this value of n before, return the cached value. Each time we computea fresh value,
add it to the cache.

Typically we use a HashMap<Integer,

Integer> for a cache. In this case, the keys will be exactly 1

through n. It’s more compact to use an integer array.
4

int countWays(int n)

{

2

int[]

3

Arrays.fill(memo,

4

return countWays(n, memo)
;

5

memo = new int[n + 1];

-1);

f

5

7

int countWays(int n,

g

if (n < @)

9

{

return @;

18

} else if (n == Q) {

11

return 1;

12

} else if (memo[n]

413

return memo[n];

14

} else

15

1?

> -1)

{

{

memo[n]

16

= countWays(n

-

1,

memo)

countWays(n

-

3,

memo);

+ countWays(n

-

2,

memo)

+

return memo[n];

1s
19

int[] memo)

{

i;
}

Regardless of whether or not you use memoization, note that the number of ways will quickly overflow the
bounds of an integer. By the time you get to justn

=

37, the result has already overflowed. Using a long

will delay, but not completely solve, this issue.
It is great to communicate this issue to your interviewer. He probably won't ask you to work around it
(although you could, with a BigInteger class), but it’s nice to demonstrate that you think about these

issues.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

343

Solutions to Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
8.2

Robot in a Grid: Imagine a robot sitting on the upper left corner of grid with r rows and c columns.
The robot can only move in two directions, right and down, but certain cells are “off limits” such that
the robot cannot step on them. Design an algorithm to find a path for the robot from the top left to
the bottom right.
pg 135

SOLUTION

If we picture this grid, the only way to move to spot (r,c) is by moving to one of the adjacent spots:
(r-1,c) or (r,c-1).
So, we need to find a path to either (r-1,c) or (r,c-1).
How do we find a path to those spots? To find a path to (r-1,c) or (r,c-1), we need to move to one
of its adjacent cells. So, we need to find a path to a spot adjacent to (r-1,c), which are coordinates

(r-2,C) and (r-1,c-1),
or a spot adjacent to (r,c-1), which are spots (r-1.c-1) and (r.c-2).
Observe that we list the point (r-1, c-1) twice; we'll discuss that issue later.

|

Tip: A lot of people use the variable names x and y when dealing with two-dimensional arrays.
This can actually cause some bugs. People tend to think about x as the first coordinate in the
matrix and y as the second coordinate (e.g.,matrix[x][y]). But, this isn’t really correct. The
first coordinate is usually thought of
as the row number, which is in fact the y value (it goes verti-

cally!). You should write matrix[y] [x]. Or, just make your life easier by using r (row) and c
(column) instead.

So then, to find a path from the origin, we just work backwards like this. Starting from the last cell, we try to
find a path to each of its adjacent cells. The recursive code below implements this algorithm.
i=

ArrayList<Point> getPath(boolean[][] maze)

2

if

3

ArrayList<Point> path

4

if

5

(maze == null
(getPath(maze,
return

6

||

maze.length == @)

{

return null;

= new ArrayList<Point>();

maze.length

-

1,

maze[@].length

-

1,

path))

{

maze,

int

row,

ArrayList<Point>

path;

t

7

return null;

8

}

10

boolean

11

/*

12

if (col < @

9

13

14

getPath(boolean[][]

If out of bounds or not available,

||

row < @

||

int

col,

path)

{

return.*/

!maze[row][col]) {

return false;

}

a5

16

boolean isAtOrigin =

(row == 0) && (col == @);

1?

18

/* If there's a

path from the start to here,

13

if (isAtOrigin

||

28

row,

col - 1,

add my location.

path)

*/

||

getPath(maze, row - 1, col, path)) {

21

Point

We

path.add(p);

23

24

getPath(maze,

p

=

new Point(row,

col);

return true;

}

25
26

return false;

27

This solution isO(2"**), since each path has r+c steps and there are two choices we can make at each step.

344

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
We should look for a faster way.
Often, we Can optimize exponential algorithms by finding duplicate work. What work are we repeating?
If we walk through the algorithm, we'll see that we are visiting squares multiple times. In fact, we visit

each square many, many times. After all, we have rc squares but we're doing O0(2"*S) work. If we were
only visiting each square once, we would probably have an algorithm that was O(rc) (unless we were
somehow doing a lot of work during each visit).

How does our current algorithm work? To find a path to (rc), we look for a path to an adjacent coordinate:

(r-1,c) or (r,c-1). Of course, if one of those squares is off limits, we ignore it. Then, we look

at their adjacent coordinates: (r-2,c), (r-1,c-1), (r-1,c-1), and (r,c-2).
The spot (r-1,c-1)
appears twice, which means that we're duplicating effort. Ideally, we should remember that we already

visited

(r-1, c-1) so that we don't waste our time.

This is what the dynamic programming algorithm below does.
1

= ©ArrayList<Point> getPath(boolean[][]

maze)

{

2

if (maze = =null || maze.length == @) return null;

3

ArrayList<Point> path = new ArrayList<Point>();

4

HashSet<Point> failedPoints = new HashSet<Point>();

5

if (getPath(maze, maze.length - 1,

6

path, failedPoints)) {

}

?
83

a

maze[@].length - 1,

return path;
return null;

8

18

11

boolean getPath(boolean[][] maze,

12

int row,

int col, ArrayList<Point> path,

HashSet<Point> failedPoints)

{

43

/* If out of bounds or not

available,

14

if (col < @

!maze[row][col]) {

15

||

row < @

||

return.*/

return false;

16

}

1?

18

Point p = new Point(row,

col);

dys

28

/* If we’ve already visited this

21

if (failedPoints.contains(p))

22

cell,

return.

*/

{

return false;

2a

}

24

25

boolean isAtOrigin = (row == @) && (col == Q);

26
2?

/* If there’s

28

if (isAtOrigin || getPath(maze, row, col - 1, path, failedPoints)

29

a path from start to my current location,

getPath(maze,

3e

row -

1,

col,

path,

failedPoints))

add my location.*/

||

{

path.add(p);

31

return true;

32

}

Bis

34

failedPoints.add(p);

35

return false;

36

// Cache result

}

This simple change will make our code run substantially faster. The algorithm will now take O(XY) time
because we hit each cell just once.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

345

Solutions to Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
8.3.

Magic Index: A magic index in an array A[1. ..n-1] is defined to be an index such that A[i]

=

i. Given a sorted array of distinct integers, write a method to find a magic index, if one exists, in
array A.
FOLLOW UP

What if the values are not distinct?
pg 135

SOLUTION
Immediately, the brute force solution should jump to mind—and there's no shame in mentioning it. We
simply iterate through the array, looking for an element which matches this condition.
1

int magicSlow(int[]

2

for (int i = @;

3

if

4

(array[i]
return

5
&

t

7

return

array)

{

i < array.length;
== i)

i++)

{

{

i;

}
-1;

8
Given that the array is sorted, though, it’s very likely that we're supposed to use this condition.

We may recognize that this problem sounds a lot like the classic binary search problem. Leveraging the
Pattern Matching approach for generating algorithms, how might we apply binary search here?
In binary search, we find an element k by comparing it to the middle element, x, and determining if k

would land on the left or the right side of x.
Building off this approach, is there a way that we can look at the middle element to determine where a
magic index might be? Let’s look at a sample array:

4 | 2

@'/11+2+>3

+=#4:'°55

When we look at the middle element A[5]
sinceA[mid]

Ju

“A0| 90) 4

5

7 | 8 | 2 | 43

+617

8 | 9 | ie

= 3, we know that the magic index must be on the right side,

< mid.

Why couldn't the magic index be on the left side? Observe that when we move from i to i-1, the value
at this index must decrease by at feast 1, if not more (since the array is sorted and all the elements are
distinct). So, if the middle element is already too small to be a magic index, then when we move to the left,
subtracting k indexes and (at least) k values, all subsequent elements will also be too small.
We continue to apply this recursive algorithm, developing code that looks very much like binary search.
int magicFast(int[]

array)

{

WN

return magicFast(array, @,

array.length - 1);

Ain

&

}
int magicFast(int[] array, int start, int end) {
if

(end

<

On

return

start)

{

-1;

2

}
int mid = (start + end)

19

if

1i
12

346

(array[mid]

== mid)

/ 2;
{

return mid;
} else

if

(array[mid]

> mid){

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
23

return magicFast(array,

14

} else

1S

return magicFast(array,

ls
17

start,

mid -

1);

{

mid + 1,

end);

}
}

Follow Up: What if the elements are not distinct?

If the elements are not distinct, then this algorithm fails. Consider the following array:

When we see that A[mid]

<

mid, we cannot conclude which side the magic index is on. It could be on

the right side, as before. Or, it could be on the left side (as it, in fact, is).

Could it be anywhere on the left side? Not exactly. Since A[5] = 3,weknow that A[4] couldn't bea magic
index. A[ 4] would need to be 4 to be the magic index, but A[ 4] must be less than or equal to A[ 5].
In fact, when we see that A[5]

= 3, we'll need to recursively search the right side as before. But, to search

the left side, we can skip a bunch of elements and only recursively search elements A[@] through A[ 3].
A[3] is the first element that could be a magic index.

The general pattern is that we compare midIndex and midValue for equality first. Then, if they are not
equal, we recursively search the left and right sides as follows:

-

Left side: search indices start through Math .min(midIndex -

1,

midValue).

*

Right side: search indices Math. max(midIndex + 1, midValue) through end.

The code below implements this algorithm.
1

int magicFast(int[]

2
3

array)

{

return magicFast(array,

@,

array.length -

1);

}

a

S

int magicFast(int[]

»

if (end < start)

array,

int start,

int end)

{

return -1;

e

8

int midIndex =

9

int midValue = array[midIndex
];

18

if

(midValue

11

(start + end)

== midIndex)

/ 2;

{

return midIndex;

12}
13

44

/* Search left * /

45

int

16

int left = magicFast(array,

1?

if

18
19

leftIndex = Math.min(midIndex
(left

>= @)

return

left;

Search

right

start,

- 1,

midValue);

leftIndex)
;

{

}

28

21

/*

a2

int rightIndex = Math.max(midIndex + 1,

* /

23

int

right = magicFast(array,

rightIndex,

midValue)
;

end);

24

Pan
26

return right;
}

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

347

Solutions to Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
Note that in the above code, if the elements are all distinct, the method operates almost identically to the
first solution.

8.4

Power Set: Write a method to return ali subsets of a set.
pg 135

SOLUTION

We should first have some reasonable expectations of our time and space complexity.
How many subsets of a set are there? When we generate a subset, each element has the“choice” of either

being in there or not. That is, for the first element, there are two choices: it is either in the set, or it is not. For

the second, there are two, etc. So, doing {2 * 2 *

...

}n times gives us 2" subsets.

Assuming that we're going to be returning a list of subsets, then our best case time is actually the total

number of elements across all of those subsets. There are 2° subsets and each of the n elements will be
contained in half of the subsets (which 2TM* subsets). Therefore, the total number of elements across all of

those subsets isn * 2°-1,

We will not be able to beat O(n2") in space or time complexity.
The subsets of {a,,

a 27

-,

a} are also called the powerset,P({a,,

a,,

..-,

a,}),orjustP(n).

Solution #1: Recursion

This problem is a good candidate for the Base Case and Build approach. Imagine that we are trying to find

all subsets ofa setlikeS =
Base Case:n

=

{a,,

a,,

...,

a,}.Wecan start with the Base Case.

@.

There is just one subset of the empty set: {}.
Case:n =

1.

There are two subsets ofthe set {a,
}: {}, {a,}.
Case:n = 2.

There are foursubsets of the set {a,,
Case:n

=

a,}:{},
{a,},
{a,}, {a,, a,}.

3.

Now here's where things get interesting. We want to find a way of generating the solution forn = 3 based
on the prior solutions.

What is the difference between the solution forn = 3andthesolutionforn = 2? Let's look at this more
deeply:

P(2)
P(3)

{}, {a}, {a}, {a,, a,}
{}, fa}, fa}, {a}, {a,, a,}, {a,, a}, {a,, a,}, {a,, a,, a,}

The difference between these solutions is that P(2) is missing all the subsets containing a,.

How can we use P(2) to create P( 3)?
We can simply clone the subsets in P(2) and add a, to them:

P(2)
P(2) + a,

348

{} , fa}, {a}, fa, a}
{a,}, {a,, ay}; {a,, a,}> {a,, a,» a,}

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
When merged together, the lines above make P(3).
Case:n

>

@

Generating P(n) for the general case is just a simple generalization of the above steps. We compute
P(n-1), clone the results, and then add a, to each of these cloned sets.
The following code implements this algorithm:
1

ArrayList<ArrayList<Integer>> getSubsets(ArrayList<Integer>

2

ArrayList<ArrayList<Integer>>

allsubsets;

3

if (set.size()

Base case - add empty set

4

== index)

{ //

set,

int index)

{

allsubsets = new ArrayList<ArrayList<Integer>>();

§

allsubsets.add(new ArrayList<Integer>());

6

//

Empty set

} else {

?

allsubsets = getSubsets(set,

8

int item = set.get(index)
;

§

ArrayList<ArrayList<Integer>> moresubsets

12

new ArrayList<ArrayList<Integer>>();

11

for

42

index + 1);

(ArrayList<Integer> subset

:

=

allsubsets)

{

ArrayList<Integer> newsubset = new ArrayList<Integer>();

13

newsubset.addAll(subset);

14

newsubset .add(item) ;

45

//

moresubsets.add(newsubset)
;

16

}

1?

allsubsets.addAll(moresubsets)
;

18

}

418

return allsubsets;

28
}

This solution will be O(n2") in time and space, which is the best we can do. For a slight optimization, we
could also implement this algorithm iteratively.

Solution #2: Combinatorics
While there’s nothing wrong with the above solution, there’s another way to approach it.
Recall that when we’re generating a set, we have two choices for each element: (1) the element is in the set
(the “yes” state) or (2) the element is not in the set (the “no” state). This means that each subset is a sequence

of yeses / nos—e.g., “yes, yes, NO, no, yes, no”
This gives us 2" possible subsets. How can we iterate through all possible sequences of“yes”
/ “no” states for
all elements? If each “yes” can be treated as a 1 and each “no” can be treated as a 0, then each subset can be
represented as a binary string.
Generating all subsets, then, really just comes down to generating all binary numbers (that is, all integers).
We iterate through all numbers from @ to 2" (exclusive) and translate the binary representation of the
numbers into a set. Easy!
i

23

ArrayList<ArrayList<Integer>> getSubsets2(ArrayList<Integer> set)

{

ArrayList<ArrayList<Integer>> allsubsets = new ArrayList<ArrayList<Integer>>();

3

int max = 1 <<

4A

for (int k = @; k < max; k++) {

set.size();

&

ArrayList<Integer> subset =

6

allsubsets.add(subset)
;

?

}

8

return allsubsets;

/* Compute 2“n */
convertIntToSet(k,

set);

9

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

349

Solutions to Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
12

11

ArrayList<Integer> convertIntToSet(int x, ArrayList<Integer>

12
13

int index = 9;

14

for

{

(int

k = x;

k >

@;

k >>= 1)

{

if ((k & 1) == 1) {

15
16

subset
.add(set
.get
(index) );

17

}

18

index++;

19

}

20
21

set)

ArrayList<Integer> subset = new ArrayList<Integer>();

return subset;
}

There’s nothing substantially better or worse about this solution compared to the first one.

8.5

Recursive Multiply: Write a recursive function to multiply two positive integers without using
the * operator (or / operator). You can use addition, subtraction, and bit shifting, but you should
minimize the number of those operations.
pg 135

SOLUTION

Let’s pause for a moment and think about what it means to do multiplication.

This is a good approach for a lot of interview questions. it’s often useful to think about what it
really means to do something, even when it’s pretty obvious.

We can think about multiplying 8x7 as doing 8+8+8+8+8+8-+8 (or adding 7 eight times). We can also think

about it as the number of squares in an 8x7 grid.

Solution #1
How would we count the number of squares in this grid? We could just count each cell. That’s pretty slow,
though.

Alternatively, we could count half the squares and then double it (by adding this count to itself). To count
half the squares, we repeat the same process.

Of course, this “doubling” only works if the number is in fact even. When it’s not even, we need to do the
counting/summing from scratch.
1

int minProduct(int a,

2

int

350

int b) {

bigger =a<b?b:
a;

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
3

int smaller =a<b?a:b;

4

5

return minProductHelper(smaller,

bigger)
;

}

6

7

int minProductHelper(int

8

if

9

(smaller == 0)

smaller,

int bigger)

{

{ // © x bigger = @

return @;

16

} else if

13

(smaller == 1)

{ //

1 x bigger = bigger

return bigger;

412

}

13

14

/* Compute half.

15

int s = smaller >> 1;

16

int side1 = minProduct(s,

1?

int side2 = sidel;

18

if (smaller % 2 == 1)

AS

If uneven,

compute other half.

double it. */

bigger)
;

{

side2 = minProductHelper(smaller - s,

20

If even,

// Divide by 2

bigger);

}

21

22

23

return sidel + side2;

}

Can we do better? Yes.
Solution #2

If we observe how the recursion operates, we'll notice that we have duplicated work. Consider this example:
minProduct(17,

23)

minProduct(8,

23)

minProduct(4,
+ minProduct(9,

23)

* 2

23)

minProduct(4, 23)
+ minProduct(5,

23)

see

The second call tominProduct(4,

23) is unaware of the prior call, and so it repeats the same work. We

should cache these results.
1

int minProduct(int a,

int b)

2

int bigger =a<b?b:

3

int smaller

{

a;

=a<b?a:

b;

4

5

int memo[]

&

return minProduct(smaller,

7

= new int[smaller + 1];
bigger,

memo)
;

4}

8

9

18

int minProduct(int smaller,

if (smaller == 6)

i

ale.

memo)

{

return 0;

return bigger;
} else if

15
16

int[]

} else if (smaller == 1) {

13
14

int bigger,

{

(memo[smaller]

> 6)

{

return memo[smaller
];
}

17

18

/* Compute half.

If uneven, compute other half.

If even, double it. */

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

351

Solutions to Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
19

int s = smaller >> 1;

28

int sidel = minProduct(s,

21

int side2 = side1;

22

if (smaller % 2 == 1)

23

// Divide by 2
bigger,

// Compute half

{

side2 = minProduct(smaller -

24

memo);

s,

bigger,

memo);

}

25

26

/* Sum and cache.*/

27

memo[smaller]

28

return memo[ smaller];

29

= side1 + side2;

}

We can still make this a bit faster.
Solution #3

One thing we might notice when we look at this code is that a call to minProduct on an even number is

much faster than one on an odd number. For example, if we call minProduct(36,
dominProduct(15,

35), then we'll just

35) and double the result. However, if we do minProduct(31,

need to callminProduct(15,

35) andminProduct(16,

35), then we'll

35).

This is unnecessary. Instead, we can do:

minProduct(31, 35) = 2 * minProduct(15, 35) + 35
After all, since 31

=

2*15+1, then 31x35

=

2*15*35+35.

The logic in this final solution is that, on even numbers, wejust divide smaller by 2 and double the result
of the recursive call. On odd numbers, we do the same, but then we also add bigger to this result.
In doing so, we have an unexpected “win.” Our minProduct function just recurses straight downwards,
with increasingly small numbers each time. It will never repeat the same call, so there’s no need to cache
any information.
{

WN

int b)

int

ui B

pe

int minProduct(int a,

bigger =a<b?b:
a;

return minProductHelper(smaller,

int smaller

=a<b?a:

b;
bigger)
;

~)

A

}
int minProductHelper(int

Oo

if (smaller == @)
else

smaller,

if (smaller == 1)
= smaller >>

int bigger)

{

return @;

1;

return bigger;

11

int s

12

int halfProd = minProductHelper(s,

// Divide by 2
bigger);

13

14

if (smaller % 2 == @)

15

return

16

} else

17

{

return halfProd + halfProd + bigger;

1g
19

{

halfProd + halfProd;

}
}

This algorithm will run inO(log s) time, where s is the smaller of the two numbers.

352

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
8.6

Towers of Hanoi: In the classic problem of the Towers of Hanoi, you have 3 towers and N disks of
different sizes which can slide onto any tower. The puzzle starts with disks sorted inascending order

of size from top to bottom (i.e., each disk sits on top of an even larger one). You have the following
constraints:

(1) Only one disk can be moved at a time.
(2) A disk is slid off the top of one tower onto another tower.
(3) A disk cannot be placed on top of a smaller disk.
Write a program to move the disks from the first tower to the last using Stacks.
pg 135

SOLUTION

This problem sounds like a good candidate for the Base Case and Build approach.

Let's start with the smallest possible example:n
Casen

=

= 1.

1.Canwe move Disk 1 from Tower 1 to Tower 3?Yes.

1, We simply move Disk 1 from Tower 1 to Tower 3.
Casen =
1.

2.Can we move Disk 1 and Disk
2 from Tower 1 to Tower 3? Yes.

Move Disk1 from Tower
1 to Tower
2

2. Move Disk 2 from Tower 1 to Tower 3
3. Move Disk 1 from Tower 2 to Tower 3
Note how in the above steps, Tower 2 acts as a buffer, holding a disk while we move other disks to Tower 3.
Casen

= 3.Canwemove Disk 1,2, and 3 from Tower 1 to Tower 3? Yes.

1. We know we can move the top two disks from one tower to another (as shown earlier), so let's assume

we've already done that. But instead, let’s move them to Tower 2.
2.

Move Disk 3 to Tower 3.

3.

Move Disk 1 and Disk 2 to Tower 3. We already know how to do this—just repeat what we did in Step 1.

Casen = 4.Can we move Disk 1, 2, 3 and 4 from Tower 1 to Tower 3? Yes.
1. Move Disks 1, 2, and 3 to Tower 2. We know how to do that from the earlier examples.
2.

Move Disk 4 to Tower 3.

3. Move Disks 1, 2 and 3 back to Tower 3.
Remember that the labels of Tower 2 and Tower 3 arent important. They’re equivalent towers. So, moving

disks to Tower 3 with Tower 2 serving as a buffer is equivalent to moving disks to Tower 2 with Tower 3
serving as a buffer.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

353

Solutions to Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
This approach leads
to a natural recursive algorithm. In each part, weare doing thefollowing steps, outlined
below with pseudocode:
moveDisks(int n, Tower origin,

1

2

/* Base

3

if (n <= @)

Tower destination,

Tower buffer)

{

case */

return;

4
5

/* move top n - 1 disks from origin to buffer, using destination as a buffer. */

&

moveDisks(n - 1, origin,

buffer,

destination)
;

7
8

/* move top from origin to destination

9

moveTop(origin,

destination)
;

18
11

/* move top n - 1 disks from buffer to destination,

12

moveDisks(n -

1,

buffer,

destination,

using origin as a buffer. */

origin);

13}

The following code provides a more detailed implementation of this algorithm, using concepts of objectoriented design.
void main(String[]

args)

{

WN

int n = 3;
Tower[] towers = new Tower[n];
for (int i = @;

AVM

towers[i]

i < 3;

i++)
{

= new Tower(i);

WN

}

OO

for (int

i =n -

1;

i >= @;

i--)

{

towers[@].add(i);

}

towers[@].moveDisks(n, towers[2]|, towers[1]);
12
}
14

class Tower {

15

private Stack<Integer> disks;

16

private int index;

1?

public Tower(int i)

18
13

20

{

disks = new Stack<Integer>();
index = i;

}

21

22

public int index()

23

return index;

24

{

}

25

26

public void add(int d) {

27

if

28

&& disks.peek()

} else {

29
38

disks.push(d);

a
32

(!disks.isEmpty()

}
}

33

34

public void moveTopTo(Tower t)

35

{

int top = disks.pop();

36

37

t.add(top)
;

}

38

354

<= d)

{

System.out.println(“Error placing disk ” + d);

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
38

public void moveDisks(int n, Tower destination, Tower buffer) {

49

if (n > 6) {

AL

moveDisks(n -

A2

moveTopTo(destination)
;

A3

buffer,

buffer.moveDisks(n

44

-

1,

destination)
;

destination,

this);

}

45
46

1,

}
}

Implementing the towers as their own objects is not strictly necessary, but it does help to make the code
cleaner in some respects.

8.7.

Permutations without Dups: Write a method to compute all permutations of a string of unique
characters.

pg 135
SOLUTION

Like in many recursive problems, the Base Case and Build approach will be useful. Assume we havea string S
represented by the characters a,a,. . .a,.
Approach 1: Building from permutations of first n-1 characters.

Base Case: permutations of frst character substring
The only permutation of a, is the string a,. So:

P(a,) = a,
Case: permutations of a,a,
P(a,a,)

= a,a, and a,a,

Case: permutations of a,a,a,
P(a,a,a,)

= aaja,,

aa,a,,

aaja,,

aa,a,,

a,aja,,

a,a,a,,

Case: permutations of a,a,a,a
27374
This is the first interesting case. How can we generate permutations of a,a,a,a, from a,a,a,?
Each permutation of a,a,a,a, represents an ordering of a,a,a,. For example, a,a,a,a, represents the order
a,a,a,.

Therefore, if we took all the permutations of a,a,a, and added a, into all possible locations, we would get all
permutations of a,a,a,a

2°34

a,a,a,

->

a,a,a,a,5

a,a,a,a,,

a, a4,
a,a,4,

->

a,a,a,a,,

a,a,4,4, 5

->

a,a,a,a,,

a,a,a,

acy

aa,a,a;,

a,a,a,

->

,
a,a,a,a,

a,a,4,

=

a,4,4,4, 5

a,a,a,a,,

a,a,a,a,
a,a,a,a,

a,a,a,a,,

a,a,a.a,

a,4,4,4; 5 a,4,4,45,5

a,a,4,a,

3°4°1-°2?

a,a,a,a, 5

a,a,a,a,
»

a,a,a,a,5

a,a,a,a,

a,a,a,a,,

a,a,a,a,

We can now implement this algorithm recursively.
tL
2

ArrayList<String> getPerms(String str) {
if (str == null)

return null;

3

A

ArrayList<String>

be)

if (str.length()

5

permutations = new ArrayList<String>();
== @)

{ // base case

permutations. add(“’’) ;

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

355

Solutions to Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
7

return permutations;

8

}

S

18

char first = str.charAt(@);

pig

String remainder = str.substring(1); // remove the first char

12

ArrayList<String> words

13

for (String word

14
15

// get the first char

= getPerms(remainder)
;

: words)

{

for (int j = @; j <= word.length(); j++) {
String s = insertCharAt(word, first, j);

16

permutations .add(s);

17

}

18

}

13

return permutations;

28

}

21

22

/* Insert char c at index i in word.

23

String insertCharAt(String word,

24

String start = word.substring(@,

25

String end = word.substring(i);

26

*/

char c,

int i)

{

i);

return start + c + end;

27

}

Approach 2: Building from permutations of all n-1 character substrings.
Base Case: single-character strings

The only permutation of a, is the string a,. So:

P(a,) =a,
Case: two-character strings
P(a,a,)

= aa, and a,a,.

P(a,a,)

= aja, and a,a,.

P(a,a,) = a,a, and a,a,.
Case: three-character strings

Here is where the cases get more interesting. How can we generate all permutations of three-character
strings, such as a,a,a,, given the permutations of two-character strings?
Well, in essence, wejust need to “try” each character as the first character and then append the permutations.

P(a,a,a,) = {a, + P(a,a,)} + a, + P(a,a,)} + {a, + P(a,a,)}
{a, + P(a,a,)} -> a,a,a,,

a,a,a,

{a, + P(a,a,)} -> a,a,a,,

a,a,a,

{a, + P(a,a,)} -> a,aja,, a,a,a,
Now that we can generate all permutations of three-character strings, we can use this to generate permutations of four-character strings.
P(a,a,aja,) ={a, + P(a,a,a,)} + {a, + P(a,a,a,)} + {a, + P(a,a,a,)} + {a, + P(a,a,a,)}

This is nowa fairly straightforward algorithm to implement.
1

ArrayList¢String> getPerms(String remainder)

{

2

int len = remainder.length();

3

ArrayList<String> result = new aArrayList<string>();

4

/* Base

5

356

case.

*/

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
if (len == @) {

&
7

result.add(“”’);

g

return

// Be sure to return empty string!

result;

}

&

18
ii

12

for (int i = 0; i < len; i++) {

12

/* Remove char i and find permutations of remaining chars.*/

14

String before = remainder.substring(@,

15

String after = remainder.substring(i + 1,

16

ArrayList<String> partials = getPerms(before + after);

i);
len);

le

1%

/* Prepend char i to each permutation.
*/

19

for (String s

28

:

partials)

{

result .add(remainder.charAt(i) + s);

pL

}

De

}

26
24

25

return

result;

}

Alternatively, instead of passing the permutations back up the stack, we can push the prefix down the stack.

When we get to the bottom (base case), prefix holds a full permutation.
1

ArrayList<String> getPerms(String str) {

2

ArrayList<String> result = new ArrayList<String>();

5)

getPerms(“”’,

4

return result;

>

str, result);

4}

6

%

void getPerms(String prefix,

8

String remainder, ArrayList<String> result)

if (remainder.length() == @)

{

result.add(prefix)
;

9

12

int len = remainder.length();

a

for

(int i = 0; i < len;

i++) {

12

String before = remainder.substring(@,

13

String after = remainder.substring(i + 1,

14

char c = remainder. charAt(i) ;

aS

getPerms(prefix +

is

i

c,

before + after,

i);
len);

result);

}

4,

For a discussion of the runtime of this algorithm, see Example 12 on page 51.

8.8

| Permutations with Duplicates: Write a method to compute all permutations of a string whose

characters are not necessarily unique.
The list of permutations should not have duplicates.
pg 135

SOLUTION

This is very similar to the previous problem, except that now we could potentially have duplicate characters

in the word.
One simple way of handling this problem is todo the same work to check ifa permutation has been created

before and then, if not, add it to the list. A simple hash table will do the trick here. This solution will take
O(n! ) time in the worst case (and, in fact, in all cases).

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

357

Solutions to Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
While it’s true that we can't beat this worst case time, we should be able to design an algorithm to beat

this in many cases. Consider a string with all duplicate characters, like aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa. This will take
an extremely long time (since there are over 6 billion permutations of a 13-character string), even though
there is only one unique permutation.

ideally, we would like to only create the unique permutations, rather than creating every permutation and
then ruling out the duplicates.

We can start with computing the count of each letter (easy enough to get this—just use a hash table). Fora
string such as aabbbbc, this would be:

a->2 |

b->4

| c->1

Let’s imagine generating a permutation of this string (now represented as a hash table). The first choice we
make is whether to use an a, b, or ¢ as the first character. After that, we have a subproblem to solve: find all
permutations of the remaining characters, and append those to the already picked “prefix.”
P(a->2

|

b->4 |

c->1) = {a + P(a->1

|

{b + P(a->2 |

P(a->1

|

b->4 |

b->3

c->1)} +

|

c->1)} +
{c + P(a->2 | b->4 | c->0)}
b->4 | c->1) = {a + P(a->@ | b->4 | c->1)} +
{b + P(a->1 | b->3 | c->1)} +

{c + P(a->1 | b->4 | c->0)}

P(a->2 | b->3 | c->1) = {a + P(a->1 | b->3 | c->1)} +

{b + P(a->2 | b->2 | c->1)} +
{c + P(a->2 |

b->3 | c->0@)}

P(a->2 | b->4 | c->0) = {a + P(a->1 | b->4 | c->@)} +
{b + P(a->2 | b->3 | c->@)}
Eventually, we'll get down to no more characters remaining.

The code below implements this algorithm.
1

ArrayList<String> printPerms(String s)

2

{

ArrayList<String> result = new ArrayList<String>();

3

HashMap<Character,

4

printPerms(map,

=

return result;

&

“’,

Integer> map = buildFreqTable(s);
s.length(),

result);

4}

7

&

HashMap<Character,

Integer> buildFreqTable(String s)

S

HashMap<Character,

18

for (char c

ie

:

s.toCharArray())

if (!map.containsKey(c))

12

{

Integer> map = new HashMap<Character,

Integer>();

{

{

map.put(c, 8);

13

}

wes

map.put(c, map.get(c) + 1);

iS)

is

return map;

17}
13

18

void printPerms(HashMap<Character,

28
21

/* Base case.

22

if (remaining == @) {

23

result. add(prefix) ;
return;

String prefix,

int remaining,

{

Permutation has been completed.

24

Be

Integer> map,

ArrayList<String> result)

*/

}

26

27

358

/* Try remaining letters for next char,

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

and generate remaining permutations.

*/

Solutions to Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
28

for

(Character c

:

map.keySet())

29

int count = map.get(c);

38

if (count > @) {

el

map.put(c,

32

printPerms(map,

33

map.put(c,

34

{

count - 1);
prefix + c,

remaining - 1,

result);

count);

}

38

}

36}

In situations where the string has many duplicates, this algorithm will run a lot faster than the earlier algorithm.

8.9

Parens: Implement an algorithm to print all valid (i.e., properly opened and closed) combinations
of n pairs of parentheses.
EXAMPLE

Input:
3

Output: ((()))5 COO), COO. OCO), OOO
pg 136

SOLUTION

Our first thought here might be to apply a recursive approach where we build the solution for f(n) by
adding pairs of parentheses to #(n-1). That's certainly a good instinct.
Let's consider the solution forn

(OO)

((Q)))

=

3:

OW)

COO

OOO

How might we build this from n = 2?

(())

OO

We can do this by inserting a pair of parentheses inside every existing pair of parentheses, as well as one

at the beginning of the string. Any other places that we could insert parentheses, such as at the end of the
string, would reduce to the earlier cases.
So, we have the following:
(())

->

(QQ)

/* inserted pair after 1st left paren */

->

((()))

/ *inserted pair after 2nd left paren */

-> ()(())
OQ)

/ *inserted pair at beginning of string */

->

(€0C))Q

/ *inserted pair after ist left paren */

->

()(())

/ *inserted pair after 2nd left paren */

->

QQOQ

/ *inserted pair at beginning of string */

But wait—we have some duplicate pairs listed. The string () (() ) is listed twice.
If we're going to apply this approach, we'll need to check for duplicate values before adding a string to our
list.

1

Set<String> generateParens(int

remaining)

{

2

Set<String> set = new HashSet<String>();

3

if (remaining == ©) {

4

5

set.add(“”);

} else {

6

Set<String> prev = generateParens(remaining -

*

for

§

(String str

:

for (int i = 0;

prev)
i <

1);

{
str.length();

i++) {

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

359

Solutions to Chapter 8 {| Recursion and Dynamic Programming
9

if (str.charAt(i) ==

°(*) {

18

String s = insertInside(str,

11

/* Add s to set if it’s not already in there. Note:

i);
HashSet

12

* automatically checks for duplicates before adding,

13

* check is

14

not necessary.

so an explicit

*/

set.add(s);

15

}

16

17

set.add(“()” + str);

18

}

19

}

20

return set;

21

}

22

23

String insertInside(String str,

int leftIndex) {

24

String left = str.substring(@,

25

String right = str.substring(leftIndex + 1,

26

return left + “()” + right;

27

leftIndex + 1);

str.length());

}

This works, but it’s not very efficient. We waste a lot of time coming up with the duplicate strings.
We can avoid this duplicate string issue by building the string from scratch. Under this approach, we add
left and right parens, as long as our expression stays valid.
On each recursive call, we have the index for a particular character in the string. We need to select either a

left or

aright paren. When can we use a left paren, and when can we use a right paren?

7. Left Paren: As long as we haven't used up all the left parentheses, we can always insert a left paren.
2. Right Paren: We can insert a right paren as long as it won't lead to a syntax error. When will we get a
syntax error? We will get a syntax error if there are more right parentheses than left.

So, we simply keep track of the number of left and right parentheses allowed. if there are left parens
remaining, we'll insert a left paren and recurse. if there are more right parens remaining than left {i.e., if
there are more left parens in use than right parens), then we'll insert a right paren and recurse.
1

void addParen(ArrayList<String> list, int leftRem,

2

int rightRem,

char[] str,

int index) {

3

if (leftRem < @

||

rightRem < leftRem) return; // invalid state

4

5

if (leftRem == @ && rightRem == @) { /* Out of left and right parentheses */

6

list.add(String.copyValueOf(str))
;

7

} else {

8

str[index] =

9

addParen(list,

‘'(';

// Add left and recurse

leftRem -

1,

rightRem,

str,

index + 1);

18

11

str[index] =

12

addParen(list,

13
14

')';

// Add right and recurse

leftRem,

rightRem -

1,

str,

index + 1);

}
}

45

16

ArrayList<String> generateParens(int count) {

17

char[]

18

ArrayList<String> list = new ArrayList<String>();

str = new char[count*2];

19

addParen(list,

20

return list;

21

count,

count,

str,

}

360

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

@);

Solutions to Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
Because we insert left and right parentheses at each index in the string, and we never repeat an index, each
string is guaranteed to be unique.

8.10

Paint Fill: Implement the “paint fill” function that one might see on many image editing programs.
That is, given a screen (represented by a two-dimensional array of colors), a point, and a new color,
fillin the surrounding area until the color changes from the original color.
pg 136

SOLUTION

First, let's visualize how this method works. When we call paintFill (i.e, “click” paint fill in the image
editing application) on, say, a green pixel, we want to “bleed” outwards. Pixel by pixel, we expand outwards

by calling paintFill onthe surrounding pixel. When we hit a pixel that is not green, we stop.
We can implement this algorithm recursively:
1

enum Color {

Black,

White,

Red,

Yellow,

Green

}

2

3

boolean PaintFill(Color[][]

4

if (screen[r][c]

5

&

screen,

== ncolor)

return PaintFill(screen,

r,

int r,

int c,

Color ncolor)

{

return false;
c,

screen[r][c],

ncolor);

3

7

8

boolean PaintFill(Color[][]

9

screen,

if (r < @ || r >= screen.length

19

int r,

||

int c,

Color ocolor,

Color ncolor)

{

c < @ [| c >= screen[@].length) {

return false;

ll

}

12

13

if

(screen[r][c]

== ocolor)

{

14

screen[r][c]

415

PaintFill(screen,

r - 1,

c,

ocolor,

16

PaintFill(screen,

r +1,

c,

ocolor,

ncolor);

// down

17

PaintFill(screen,

r,

c -

1,

ocolor,

ncolor);

//

18

PaintFill(screen,

r,

c + 1,

ocolor,

ncolor);

// right

19

ncolor); // up
left

}

26

21

= ncolor;

return

true;

}

If you used the variable names x and y to implement this, be careful about the ordering of the variables in

screen[y][x]. Because x represents the horizontal axis (that is, it’s left to right), it actually corresponds
to the column number, not the row number. The value of
y equals the number of rows. This is a very easy
place to make a mistake in an interview, as well as in your daily coding. It’s typically clearer to use row and

column instead, as we've done here.
Does this algorithm seem familiar? it should! This is essentially depth-first search on a graph. At each pixel,

we are searching outwards to each surrounding pixel. We stop once we've fully traversed all the surrounding
pixels of this color.
We could alternatively implement this using breadth-first search.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

361

Solutions to Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
8.11

Coins: Given an infinite number of quarters (25 cents), dimes (10 cents), nickels (5 cents), and
pennies (1 cent), write code to calculate the number of ways of representing n cents.
pg 136

SOLUTION

This is a recursive problem, so let's figure out how to compute makeChange(n) using prior solutions (i.e.,
subproblems).
Let’s sayn

=

100.We want to compute the number of ways of making change for 100 cents. What is the

relationship between this problem and its subproblems?
We know that making change for 100 cents will involve either 0, 1, 2, 3, or 4 quarters. So:
makeChange(10@)

= makeChange(1@@ using @ quarters) +
+++

makeChange(1@@ using 1 quarter)
makeChange(1@@ using 2 quarters)
makeChange(1@@ using 3 quarters)
makeChange(1@@ using 4 quarters)

Inspecting this further, we can see that some of these problems reduce. For example, makeChange (100
using 1 quarter) willequalmakeChange(75 using © quarters). Thisis because, if we must use
exactly one quarter to make change for 100 cents, then our only remaining choices involve making change
for the remaining 75 cents.

We can apply the same logic tomakeChange(10@ using 2 quarters),makeChange(10@ using
3 quarters) andmakeChange(10@ using 4 quarters).Wehavethus reduced the above statement to the following.
makeChange(10@)

= makeChange(1@@ using @ quarters) +
makeChange(75 using @ quarters) +
makeChange(5@ using @ quarters)

+

makeChange(25 using @ quarters) +
1

Note that the final statement from above, makeChange(100 using 4 quarters), equals 1. We call
this “fully reduced.”
Now what? We've used up all our quarters, so now we can start applying our next biggest denomination:
dimes.

Our approach for quarters applies to dimes as well, but we apply this for each of the four of five parts of the
above statement. So, for the first part, we get the following statements:
@ dimes) +

makeChange(1@@ using @ quarters,

1 dime)

makeChange(1@@ using @ quarters,

2 dimes) +

makeChange(10@ using @ quarters,

1@ dimes)

= makeChange(75 using @ quarters,

+

@ dimes) +

makeChange(75 using @ quarters,

1 dime)

+

makeChange(75 using @ quarters)

= makeChange(1@@ using @ quarters,

makeChange(75 using @ quarters,

2 dimes)

+

makeChange(10@ using @ quarters)

362

1 dime)

+

@ dimes)

makeChange(5@ using @ quarters,
makeChange(5@ using @ quarters,

2 dimes)

+

makeChange(5@ using @ quarters) = makeChange(5@ using @ quarters,

+

makeChange(75 using @ quarters, 7 dimes)

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming

eee

makeChange(5@ using @ quarters,

5 dimes)

makeChange(25 using @ quarters) = makeChange(25 using @ quarters, @ dimes) +
makeChange(25 using @ quarters,

1 dime)

makeChange(25 using @ quarters,

2 dimes)

Each one of these, in turn, expands out once we start applying nickels. We end up with a tree-like recursive

structure where each call expands out to four or more calls.
The base case of our recursion is the fully reduced statement. For example, makeChange(5@

quarters,

using

©

5 dimes) is fully reduced to 1, since 5 dimes equals 50 cents.

This leads to a recursive algorithm that looks like this:
1

int makeChange(int amount,

int[{]

denoms,

2

if (index >= denoms.length -

3

int denomAmount = denoms[ index];

4

int ways = Q@;

.

for

6

int index)

return 1;

i * denomAmount <= amount;

int amountRemaining = amount -

7

{

// last denom

i++) {

i * denomAmount;

ways += makeChange(amountRemaining,

8

denoms,

index + 1);

j

9

12

(int i = @;

1)

return ways;

}

ded

12

int makeChange(int n)

ae

int[] denoms = {25,

{

414

return makeChange(n,

10,

5, 1};

denoms,

@);

is}

This works, but it’s not as optimal as it could be. The issue is that we will be recursively calling makeChange

several times for the same values of amount and index.
We can resolve this issue by storing the previously computed values. We'll need to store a mapping from

each pair (amount,

index) to the precomputed result.

Lint makeChange(int n)

{

2

int[]

5]@,

3

int{][]

4

return makeChange(n,

5

denoms = {2

5,

1};

map = new int[{n + 1][{denoms.length];
denoms,

©,

// precomputed vals

map);

}

6

?

int makeChange(int amount,

%

if

*

(map[amount][index]

int[]

> @) {

denoms,

//

int[{][]

map)

{

return map[
amount
]
[index];

16

}

11

if

ue

int denomAmount

(index

>= denoms.length

43

int

ways

= Q;

14

for

(int

i

a5

= @;

// go to next

-

1)

return

1;

// one

denom

remaining

= denoms[ index];
i * denomAmount
denom,

amountRemaining

<= amount;

assuming i

16

int

ways += makeChange(amountRemaining,

18

}

1s

map[{ amount ][index]

28

return ways;

= amount

-

coins

ae

21

int index,

retrieve value

i

*

i++)

{

of denomAmount

denomAmount;

denoms,

index + 1, map);

= ways;

}

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

363

Solutions to Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
Note that we’ve used a two-dimensional array of integers to store the previously computed values. This is
simpler, but takes up a little extra space. Alternatively, we could use an actual hash table that maps from

amount to a new hash table, which then maps from denom to the precomputed value. There are other
alternative data structures as well.

8.12

Eight Queens: Write an algorithm to print all ways of arranging eight queens on an 8x8 chess board
so that none of them share the same row, column, or diagonal. In this case, “diagonal” means all

diagonals, not just the two that bisect the board.
pg 136

SOLUTION

We have eight queens which must be lined up on an 8x8 chess board such that none share the same row,
column or diagonal. So, we know that each row and column (and diagonal) must be used exactly once.

O

©

O

@)

@

A“Solved” Board with 8 Queens

Picture the queen that is placed last, which we'll assume is on row 8. (This is an okay assumption to make

since the ordering of placing the queens is irrelevant.) On which cell in row 8 is this queen? There are eight
possibilities, one for each column.
So if we want to know all the valid ways of arranging 8 queens on an 8x8 chess board, it would be:
ways to arrange 8 queens on an 8x8 board with queen at (7,

@)

ways to arrange 8 queens on an 8x8 board with queen at

(7,

1)

ways to arrange 8 queens on an 8x8 board with queen at (7,

2)

ways to arrange 8 queens on an 8x8 board with queen at

(7,

3)

ways to arrange 8 queens on an 8x8 board with queen at

(7, 4)

ways to arrange 8 queens on an 8x8 board with queen at (7,

5)

ways to arrange 8 queens on an 8x8 board with queen at

(7,

6)

ways to arrange 8 queens on an 8x8 board with queen at

(7,

7)

+++
++ 4+ 4

ways to arrange 8 queens on an 8x8 board =

We can compute each one of these using a very similar approach:
ways to arrange 8 queens on an 8x8 board with queen at
ways to

...

with queens at

(7,

3)

and

(6,

@)

+

ways to

...

with queens at

ways to

...

with queens at

(7,

3)

and

(6,

1)

+

(7,

3)

and

(6,

2)

ways to

...

with queens

+

at

(7,

3)

and

(6,

4)

ways to

+

...

with queens at

(7,

3)

and

(6,

5) +

ways to

...

with queens at

(7,

3) and

(6,

6) +

ways to

...

with queens at

(7,

3)

(6,

7)

and

(7,

3)

Note that we don’t need to consider combinations with queens at (7, 3) and(6, 3), since thisis a violation of the requirement that every queen is in its own row, column and diagonal.

364

Cracking the Coding !nterview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
implementing this is now reasonably straightforward.

void placeQueens(int row,
if

(row == GRID_SIZE)

Integer[]

{ //

results.add(columns.clone());

for (int col = @;

col < GRID SIZE;

PRP RP Pe RP RP
ON
On
hm WN RF

O

if (checkValid(columns,
columns[row]

20
24

{

} else {

placeQueens(row + 1,

19

columns, ArrayList<Integer[]> results)

Found valid placement

Re
©}

ON

Hm

&

WA

int GRID_SIZE = 8;

= col;

row,

col++)

col))

{

{

// Place queen

columns,

results);

}

/* Check if

(rowl,

column1)

is

a valid

spot for a queen by checking if there is

* queen in the same column or diagonal.

a

We don’t need to check it for queens in

* the same row because the calling placeQueen only attempts to place one queen at
* a time.

We know this

row is empty.

boolean checkValid(Integer[]
for (int

row2 = 6;

row2 <

columns,
rowl;

22

int column2 = columns[row2];

23

/* Check if (row2,
* queen spot.

24

*/
int

row2++)

row1,

int columni)

{

{

column2) invalidates (row1,

columni1) as a

*/

25
26

/* Check if rows have a queen in the same column */

27

if

28
29

(column1 == column2)

{

return false;

}

38
31

/* Check diagonals:
* between the rows,

32

33

if the distance between the columns equals the distance
then they’re in the same diagonal.

int columnDistance = Math.abs(column2

-

*/

column1);

34
35

/*

36

int rowDistance = rowl -

37

if

>

row2,

so no need for abs

*/

row2;

(columnDistance == rowDistance)

{

return false;

38

3g

rowl

}

40
41

return

true;

42

Observe that since each row can only have one queen, we don't need to store our board as a full 8x8 matrix.
We only need a single array where column[r] = c indicates that row r has a queen at column c.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

365

Solutions to Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
8.13

Stack of Boxes: You have a stack of n boxes, with widths w,, heights h,, and depths d,. The boxes
cannot be rotated and can only be stacked on top of one another if each box in the stack is strictly
larger than the box above it in width, height, and depth. Implement a method to compute the

height of the tallest possible stack. The height of a stack is the sum ofthe heights of each box.
pg 136
SOLUTION

To tackle this problem, we need to recognize the relationship between the different subproblems.
Solution #1

Imagine we had the following boxes:b,,

b,,

...,

b,. The biggest stack that we can build with all the

boxes equals the max of (biggest stack with bottom b,, biggest stack with bottom b,,

.. ., biggest stack

with bottom b_ ). That is, if we experimented with each box as a bottom and built the biggest stack possible

with each, we would find the biggest stack possible.
But, how would we find the biggest stack with a particular bottom? Essentially the same way. We experiment with different boxes for the second level, and so on for each level.

Of course, we only experiment with valid boxes. If b, is bigger than b,, then there's no point in trying to
build a stack that looks like {b,,

b, ,

...}.Wealready know b, can't be below b,,.

We can perform a small optimization here. The requirements of this problem stipulate that the lower boxes

must be strictly greater than the higher boxes in all dimensions. Therefore, if we sort (descending order) the
boxes on a dimension—any dimension—then we know we dont have to look backwards in the list. The

box b, cannot be on top of box b,, since its height (or whatever dimension we sorted on) is greater than
b,’s height.
The code below implements this algorithm recursively.
1

int createStack(ArrayList<Box> boxes)

{

2

/* Sort in decending order by height.

3

Collections.sort(boxes,

A

int maxHeight = 0;

5

for (int i = 0;

*/

new BoxComparator()
);

i < boxes.size();

i++) {

&

int height = createStack(boxes,

i);

i

maxHeight = Math.max(maxHeight,

height)
;

8

}

9

return maxHeight;

18
}
ai

12

int createStack(ArrayList<Box> boxes,

13

int bottomIndex) {

Box bottom = boxes.get(bottomIndex)
;

14

int maxHeight = 9;

15

for (int i = bottomIndex + 1;

16

if

i < boxes.size();

(boxes.get(i).canBeAbove(bottom))

17

int height = createStack(boxes,

18

maxHeight = Math.max(height,

19

{

i);

maxHeight)
;

}

20k

21

maxHeight += bottom.height;

ae

return maxHeignt;

23

}

24

25

Class BoxComparator implements Comparator<Box> .{

366

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

i++)

{

Solutions to Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
26

@Override

2?

public int compare(Box x,

28
}

29
3@

Box y){

return y.height - x.height;
}

The problem in this code is that it gets very inefficient. We try to find the best solution that looks like {b,,
b,, -+-} even though we may have already found the best solution with b, at the bottom. Instead of
generating these solutions from scratch, we can cache these results using memoization.

1

int createStack(ArrayList<Box> boxes) {

2

Collections.sort(boxes,

3

int maxHeight = 9;

4

int[]

5

for

new BoxComparator())
;

stackMap = new int[boxes.size()];

(int i = 0;

i < boxes.size();

i++)

{

6

int height = createStack(boxes,

i,

?

maxHeight = Math.max(maxHeight,

height)
;

8

}

S

18

stackMap)
;

return maxHeight;

}

it

12

int createStack(ArrayList<Box> boxes,

13

if (bottomIndex <

14

boxes.size()

int bottomIndex,

int[]

&& stackMap[bottomIndex]

stackMap)

> 9)

{

{

return stackMap[bottomIndex]
;

15

}

16

17

Box bottom = boxes.get (bottomIndex) ;

18

int maxHeight = 9;

is

for

20

(int i = bottomIndex + 1;

if

i <

boxes.size();

i++)

(boxes.get(i).canBeAbove(bottom))

{

a1

int height = createStack(boxes,

stackMap)
;

22

maxHeight

23

= Math.max(height,

maxHeight)
;

}

24

}

25

maxHeight += bottom.height;

26

stackMap[bottomIndex] = maxHeight;

a
28

i,

{

return maxHeight
;
}

Because we're only mapping from an index to a height, we can just use an integer array for our“hash table”

Be very careful here with what each spot in the hash table represents. In this code, stackMap[
i] represents the tallest stack with box i at the bottom. Before pulling the value from the hash table, you have to
ensure that box i can be placed on top of the current bottom.
It helps to keep the line that recalls from the hash table symmetric with the one that inserts. For example, in

this code, we recall from the hash table with bot tomIndex at the start of the method. We insert into the
hash table with bot tomIndex at the end.

Solution #2
Alternatively, we can think about the recursive algorithm as making a choice, at each step, whether to put

a particular box in the stack. (We will again sort our boxes in descending order by a dimension, such as
height.)

First, we choose whether or not to put box 0 in the stack. Take one recursive path with box 0 at the bottom

and one recursive path without box 0, Return the better of the two options.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

367

Solutions to Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
Then, we choose whether or not to put box 1 in the stack. Take one recursive path with box 1 at the bottom
and one path without box 1. Return the better of the two options.
We will again use memoization to cache the height of the tallest stack with a particular bottom.
1

int createStack(ArrayList<Box> boxes)

{

2

Collections.sort(boxes, new BoxComparator());

3

int[] stackMap = new int[boxes.size()];

4

return createStack(boxes,

5

null, @,

stackMap)
;

4}

6

7

int createStack(ArrayList<Box> boxes,

8

if (offset >= boxes.size())

Box bottom,

return @;

int offset,

int[]

stackMap)

{

// Base case

9

18

/ *height with this

11

Box newBottom = boxes.get(offset)
;

12

int heightWithBottom = @;

13

if (bottom == null

14

bottom */

|| newBottom. canBeAbove(bottom)) {

if (stackMap[offset] == 9)

{

15

stackMap[offset]

= createStack(boxes,

16

stackMap[offset] += newBottom.height;

17

}

18

heightwithBottom = stackMap[offset
];

19

newBottom,

offset + 1,

stackMap);

}

28

21

/ *without this

22

int heightWithoutBottom = createStack(boxes,

24,

/* Return better of two options. */

25
26

bottom */

return Math.max(heightWithBottom,

bottom, offset + 1,

stackMap)
;

heightWithoutBottom)
;

}

Again, pay close attention to when you recall and insert values into the hash table. It’s typically best if these
are symmetric, as they are in lines 15 and 16-18.

8.14

Boolean Evaluation: Given a boolean expression consisting of the symbols @ (false), 1 (true), &

(AND), | (OR), and * (XOR), and a desired boolean result value result, implement a function to
count the number of ways of parenthesizing the expression such that it evaluates to result. The

expressionshould be fully parenthesized (e.g., (@) *(1)) but not extraneously (e.g.,

(( (8) )*(1) )).

EXAMPLE

countEval("1*°@|@|1", false) -> 2
countEval ("0&0&0&1"1|@", true) -> 10
pg 136

SOLUTION
As in other recursive problems, the key to this problem is to figure out the relationship between a problem

and its subproblems.
Brute Force

Consider an expression like @4@80°1|1 and the target result true. How can we break down

countEval(@@&8@%1|1, true) into smaller problems?
We could just essentially iterate through each possible place to put a parenthesis.

368

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
countEval (0*@&@*1|1, true) =
countEval(@*@&@*1|1 where paren around char 1, true)
+ countEval(@*@&0*1|1 where paren around char 3, true)
+ countEval(@*@&@*%1|1 where paren around char 5, true)

+ countEval(@*@&0%1|1 where paren around char 7, true)

Now what? Let’s look at just one of those expressions—the paren around char3. This gives us (040)&(041).
In order to make that expression true, both the eft and right sides must be true. So:
left = “@*e”

right = “@41|1”
countEval(left & right, true)

= countEval(left,

true)

*

countEval(right,

true)

The reason we multiply the results of the left and right sides is that each result from the two sides can be
paired up with each other to form a unique combination.
Each of those terms can now be decomposed into smaller problems in a similar process.

What happens when we have an“|" (OR)? Or an“4” (XOR)?
If it's an OR, then either the left or the right side must be true—or both.
countEval(left

|

right, true)

= countEval(left, true)

* countEval(right, false)

+ countEval(left,

false)

*

countEval(right,

true)

+ countEval(left,

true)

* countEval(right,

true)

countEval(right,

false)

* countEval(right,

true)

If it's an XOR, then the left or the right side can be true, but not both.
countEval(left * right,

true)

= countEval(left,

true)

+ countEval(left,

false)

*

What if we were trying to make the result false instead? We can switch up the logic from above:
countEval(left & right,

countEval(left

|

false)

= countEval(left, true)

* countEval(right,

false)

+ countEval(left,

false)

*

true)

+ countEval(left,

false)

* countEval(right,

countEval(right,

false)

right, false) = countEval(left, false) * countEval(right, false)

countEval(left * right,

false)

= countEval(left,

false)

* countEval(right,

false)

+ countEval(left,

true)

*

true)

countEval(right,

Alternatively, we can just use the same logic from above and subtract it out from the total number of ways
of evaluating the expression.
totalEval(left) = countEval(left,
totalEval(right)

true) + countEval(left,

= countEval(right,

true)

totalEval(expression)

= totalEval(left)

countEval(expression,

false)

false)

+ countEval(right,

false)

* totalEval(right)

= totalEval(expression)

-

countEval(expression, true)

This makes the code a bit more concise.
i

int countEval(String s,

boolean result)

{

2

if (s.length()

== 9)

return @;

3

if

== 1)

return stringToBool(s)

(s.length()

== result

? 1

:

0;

4

5

int ways

6

for

= @;

(int i = 1;

i <

s.length();

i += 2)

?

char c = s.charAt(i);

8

String left

9

String right = s.substring(i + 1,

= s.substring(@,

{

i);

s.length());

19

ii

/* Evaluate each side for each result.

12

int leftTrue = countEval(left,

13

int leftFalse = countEval(left,

false);

14

int rightTrue = countEval(right,

true);

*/

true);

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

369

Solutions to Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
45

int

16

int total = (leftTrue + leftFalse)

rightFalse = countEval(right,

false);

*

(rightTrue + rightFalse);

1?

18

int totalTrue = @;

A'S

if (c == °*’) { // required: one true and one false

28

totalTrue = leftTrue *

21

} else if (c ==

22

£&)

rightFalse + leftFalse * rightTrue;

{ // required:

both true

totalTrue = leftTrue * rightTrue;

23

} else if (c ==

24

*|’?) { // required: anything but both false

totalTrue = leftTrue * rightTrue + leftFalse * rightTrue +

25

leftTrue * rightFalse;

26

}

27

28

int subWays = result ? totalTrue

29

ways += subWays;

3@

:

total - totalTrue;

}

31
32

33

return ways;

}

34

35

boolean stringToBool(String c)

36
37

return c.equals(“1”)

? true

{
:

false;

}

Note that the tradeoff of computing the false results from the true ones, and of computing the

{leftTrue,

rightTrue,

leftFalse,

and

rightFfalse} values upfront, isa small amount of

extra work in some cases, For example, if we're looking for the ways that an AND (&) can result in true, we

never would have needed the leftFalse and rightFalse results. Likewise, if we're looking for the ways

that an OR (|) can result in false, we never would have needed the left True and right True

results.

Our current code is blind to what we do and don't actually need to do and instead just computes all of
the values. This is probably a reasonable tradeoff to make (especially given the constraints of whiteboard
coding) as it makes our code substantially shorter and less tedious to write. Whichever approach you make,

you should discuss the tradeoffs with your interviewer.
That said, there are more important optimizations we can make.
Optimized Solutions

If we follow the recursive path, we'll note that we end up doing the same computation repeatedly.

Consider the expression @*@&@"1 | 1 and these recursion paths:

-

Add parens around char 1. (@)*(0&0%1|1)

»
»

Add parens around char 3. (0)*( (8)&(0%1|1))

Add parens around char 3. (0°0)&(0%1|1)
»

Add parens around char
1. ((@)*(@) )&(0%1|1)

Although these two expressions are different, they have a similar component: (81 | 1).We should reuse our
effort on this.
We can do this

by using

countEval(expression,

memoization, or a

hash table. We just

need to store the

calculated before, we just return it from the cache.
1

int countEval(String s, boolean result, HashMap<String, Integer> memo) {

2

if (s.length()

== 6)

return @;

3

if

== 1)

return stringToBool(s)

370

(s.length()

result of

result) for each expression and result. if we see an expression that we've

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

== result

? 1

:

@;

Solutions to Chapter 8 | Recursion and Dynamic Programming
A

if

(memo.containsKey(result + s))

return memo.get(result + s);

5

int ways = 0;

5
?

8

for

9

(int i = 1;

i <

s.length();

i += 2)

{

char c = S.charAt(i);

10

String left = s.substring(@,

14

String right = s.substring(i + 1,

i);

42
413

int leftTrue = countEval(left, true, memo);
int leftFalse = countEval(left, false, memo);

s.length());

14

int rightTrue = countEval(right, true,

15

int

16

int total =

rightFalse = countEval(right,

memo);

false,

(leftTrue + leftFalse)

*

memo);

(rightTrue + rightFalse);

17

18

int totalTrue = Q;

19

siti (Wie

26

totalTrue = leftTrue *

rightFalse + leftFalse *

rightTrue;

21

} else if (c == °&’) {

22.

totalTrue = leftTrue * rightTrue;
} else if (c == ‘|’) {
totalTrue = leftTrue * rightTrue + leftFalse * rightTrue +

23
24
25

leftTrue * rightFalse;

26

}

27

28

int subWays = result

29

ways += subWays;

? totalTrue

: total - totalTrue;

}

38
31

22

memo.put(result + S, ways);

33)
34

return ways;
3}

The added benefit of this is that we could actually end up with the same substring in multiple parts of the

expression. For example, an expression like @41*0&0%1*%@ has two instances of 0*1*®. By caching the
result of the substring value in a memoization table, we'll get to reuse the result for the right part of the
expression after computing it for the left.
There is one further optimization we can make, but it’s far beyond the scope of the interview. There is
a closed form expression for the number of ways of parenthesizing an expression, but you wouldn't be
expected to know it It is given by the Catalan numbers, where n is the number of operators:
C

5 h20)!
nTM

(n+1)!n!

We could use this to compute the total ways of evaluating the expression. Then, rather than computing
leftTrue and leftFalse, we just compute one of those and calculate the other using the Catalan
numbers. We would do the same thing for the right side.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

371

Solutions to System Design and Scalability

9.1

Stock Data: Imagine you are building some sort of service that will be called by up to 1,000 client
applications to get simple end-of-day stock price information (open, close, high, low). You may
assume that you already have the data, and you can store it in any format you wish. How would
you design the client-facing service that provides the information to client applications? You are
responsible for the development, rollout, and ongoing monitoring and maintenance of the feed.
Describe the different methods you considered and why you would recommend your approach.

Your service can use any technologies you wish, and can distribute the information to the client
applications in any mechanism you choose.

pg 144
SOLUTION

From the statement of the problem, we want to focus on how we actually distribute the information to
clients. We can assume that we have some scripts that magically collect the information.
We want to start off by thinking about what the different aspects we should consider in a given proposal
are:

Client Ease of Use: We want the service to be easy for the clients to implement and useful for them.

Ease for Ourselves: This service should be as easy as possible for us to implement, as we shouldn't impose

unnecessary work on ourselves. We need to consider in this not only the cost of implementing, but also
the cost of maintenance.
Flexibility for Future Demands: This problem is stated in a “what would you do in the real world” way,
so we should think like we would in a real-world problem. ideally, we do not want to overly constrain
ourselves in the implementation, such that we can't be flexible if the requirements or demands change.

Scalability and Efficiency: We should be mindful of the efficiency of our solution, so as not to overly
burden our service.

With this framework in mind, we can consider various proposals.

Proposal #1

One option is that we could keep the data in simple text files and let clients download the data through
some sort of FTP server. This would be easy to maintain in some sense, since files can be easily viewed and
backed up, but it would require more complex parsing to do any sort of query. And, if additional data were
added to our text file, it might break the clients’ parsing mechanism.

372

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 9 | System Design and Scalability
Proposal #2

We could use a standard SQL database, and let the clients plug directly into that. This would provide the
following benefits:

Facilitates an easy way for the clients to do query processing over the data, in case there are additional
features we Need to support. For example, we could easily and efficiently perform a query such as “return
all stocks having an open price greater than N and a closing price less than M’”

Rolling back, backing up data, and security could be provided using standard database features. We
don't have to “reinvent the wheel,’ so it’s easy for us to implement.
Reasonably easy for the clients to integrate into existing applications. SQL integration is a standard

feature in software development environments.
What are the disadvantages of using a SQL database?
It's much heavier weight than we really need. We don't necessarily need all the complexity of a SQL

backend to support a feed of a few bits of information.
It’s difficult for humans to be able to read it, so we'll likely need to implement an additional layer to view
and maintain the data. This increases our implementation costs.
Security: While a SQL database offers pretty well defined security levels, we would still need to be very
careful to not give clients access that they shouldn't have. Additionally, even if clients aren't doing
anything “malicious,”
they might perform expensive and inefficient queries, and our servers would bear
the costs of that.
These disadvantages don't mean that we shouldn't provide SQL access. Rather, they mean that we should
be aware of the disadvantages.

Proposal #3

XML is another great option for distributing the information. Our data has fixed format and fixed size:

company_name, open, high, low, closing price. The XML could look like this:
<root>

<date value=“2008-10-12”>
<company

name=“foo”>

<open>126.23</open>

<high>130.27</high>
<low>122.83</low>

<closingPrice>127.30</closingPrice>
</company>
<company

name=“bar”’>

<open>52.73</open>

<high>6@.27</high>
<low>S®@.29</low>

<closingPrice>54.91</closingPrice>
14

15

16
17

</company>

</date>

<date value=“2008-10-11”>

.

.

.

</date>

</root>

The advantages ofthis approach include the following:
it's very easy to distribute, and it can also be easily read by both machines and humans. This is one

reason that XML is a standard data model to share and distribute data.
Most languages have a library to perform XML parsing, so it’s reasonably easy for clients to implement.

CrackingTheCodingIinterview.com | 6th Edition

373

Solutions to Chapter 9 | System Design and Scalability
«

Wecan add new data tothe XML file by adding additional nodes. This would not break the client's parser
(provided they have implemented their parser in a reasonable way).

*

Since the data is being stored as XML files, we can use existing tools for backing up the data. We don't
need to implement our own backup tool.

The disadvantages may include:
*

This solution sends the clients all the information, even if they only want part of it. It is inefficient in that
way.

«

Performing any queries on the data requires parsing the entire file.

Regardless of which solution we use for data storage, we could provide a web service (e.g., SOAP) for client

data access. This adds a layer to our work, but it can provide additional security, and it may even make it
easier for clients to integrate the system.

However—and this is a pro and a con—clients will be limited to grabbing the data only how we expect or
want them to. By contrast, in a pure SQL implementation, clients could query for the highest stock price,
even if this wasn't a procedure we “expected” them to need.
So which one of these would we use? There’s no clear answer. The pure text file solution is probably a
bad choice, but you can make a compelling argument for the SQL or XML solution, with or without a web
service.

The goal of a question like this is not to see if you get the “correct” answer (there is no single correct answer).

Rather, it’s to see how you design a system, and how you evaluate trade-offs.

9.2

Social Network: How would you design the data structures for a very large social network like
Facebook or LinkedIn? Describe how you would design an algorithm to show the shortest path
between two people (e.g., Me -> Bob -> Susan -> Jason -> You).
pg 145

SOLUTION

A good way to approach this problem is to remove some of the constraints and solve it for that situation
first.

Step 1: Simplify the Problem—Forget About the Millions of Users

First, let’s forget that we're dealing with millions of users. Design this for the simple case.
We can construct a graph by treating each person as a node and letting an edge between two nodes indi-

cate that the two users are friends.
If |wanted to find the path between two people, | could start with one person and do a simple breadth-first

search.

Why wouldn't a depth-first search work well? First, depth-first search would just find a path. It wouldn't
necessarily find the shortest path. Second, even if we just needed any path, it would be very inefficient.
Two

users might be only one degree of separation apart, but | could search millions of nodes in their “subtrees”
before finding this relatively immediate connection.
Alternatively, | could do what's called a bidirectional breadth-first search. This means doing two breadthfirst searches, one from the source and one from the destination. When the searches collide, we know we've
found a path.

374

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 9 | System Design and Scalability
In the implementation, we'll use two classes to help us. BFSData holds the data we need for a breadth-first
search, suchas the isVisited hash table and the toVisit queue. PathNode will represent the path as
we're searching it, storing each

Person and the previousNode we visited in this path.

i

LinkedList<Person> findPathBiBFS(HashMap<Integer,

2

int destination)

Person> people,

int source,

{

3

BFSData sourceData = new BFSData(people.get(source)
) ;

4A

BFSData destData = new BFSData(people.get(destination)
);

5
while

5

(!sourceData.isFinished()

&& !destData.isFinished()) {

?

/ *Search out from source.

8

Person collision = searchLevel(people,

§

if (collision

!= null)

*/

sourceData,

return mergePaths(sourceData, destData,

a

destData)
;

{

collision.getID());

}
/ *Search out from destination.

*/

collision = searchLevel(people,

destData,

sourceData)
;

destData,

collision.getID());

if (collision

!= null) {

return mergePaths(sourceData,

}

}

return null;

i

}
22

/

ae

Person searchLevel(HashMap<Integer,

*Search one level and return collision,

*/

BFSData secondary) {

24

25

if any.

Person> people, BFSData primary,

/ *We only want to search one level at a time.

26

*

27

* to add nodes to the end.

Count how many nodes are

currently in the primary’s level and only do that many nodes.

28

int count = primary.toVisit.size();

23

for (int i = @;

i < count;

*Pull out first node.

We’11 continue

*/

i++)

{

38

/

*/

Sa

PathNode pathNode = primary.toVisit.poll();

32

int personiId = pathNode.getPerson().getID();

33

34

/ *Check if it’s already been visited.

35

if (secondary.visited.containsKey(personId))

*/
{

return pathNode.getPerson()
;

36

}

37

38

39

/

4G

Person person = pathNode.getPerson();

*Add friends to queue.

41

ArrayList<Integer> friends = person.getFriends();

42

for (int friendId

:

*/

friends)

{

43

if (!primary.visited.containsKey(friendId))

44

Person friend = people.get(friendId)
;

45

PathNode next = new PathNode(friend,

46

primary.visited.put(friendId,

{

pathNode)
;

next);

primary.toVisit.add(next)
;

47

48
45

}

}

50

t

51

return

null;

aa
53

CrackingTheCoding|Interview.com | 6th Edition

375

Solutions to Chapter 9 | System Design and Scalability
54

/* Merge paths where searches met at connection.

55

LinkedList<Person> mergePaths(BFSData bfs1,

*/

BFSData bfs2,

int connection)

56

PathNode end1 = bfsi.visited.get(connection);

// end1 -> source
// end2 -> dest

57

PathNode end2 = bfs2.visited.get(connection);

58

LinkedList<Person> pathOne = end1.collapse(false)
;

59

LinkedList<Person> pathTwo = end2.collapse(true);

66

pathTwo.removeFirst();

61

pathOne.addAll(pathTwo);

62

return pathOne;

//

{

// reverse

remove connection
// add second path

}

63
54

65

class

PathNode {

66

private Person person = null;

67

private PathNode previousNode = null;

68

public PathNode(Person p,

69

PathNode previous)

{

person = p;

76

previousNode = previous;

71

}

72

73

public Person getPerson() {

return

person;

}

74

75

public LinkedList<Person> collapse(boolean startsWithRoot) {

76

LinkedList<Person> path = new LinkedList<Person>();

77

PathNode node = this;

78

while

79

if

88

(node

!= null)

{

(startsWithRoot)

{

path. addLast(node.person)
;

81

} else {

82

path.
addFirst
(node.
person) ;

83

}

84

node

85

= node.previousNode;

}

86

return path;

87

}

88

}

89

96

class BFSData {

91

public Queue<PathNode> toVisit = new LinkedList<PathNode>()
;

92

public HashMap<Integer,

93

new HashMap<Integer,

PathNode> visited =

PathNode>();

94

95

public BFSData(Person root)

{

96

PathNode sourcePath = new PathNode(root,

97

toVisit.add(sourcePath)
;

98

visited.put(root.getID(),

99

null);

sourcePath);

}

166

162

public boolean isFinished()

182

return toVisit.isEmpty();

{

183}

104 }

Many people are surprised that this is faster. Some quick math can explain why.

Suppose every person has k friends, and node S and node D havea
*

friend C in common.

Traditional breadth-first search from S to D: We go through roughly k+k*k nodes: each of S's k friends,
and then each of their k friends.

376

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 9 | System Design and Scalability
-

Bidirectiona} breadth-first search:
We go through 2k nodes: each of S's k friends and each ofD’s k friends.

Of course, 2k is much less than k+k*k,
Generalizing this to a path of length q, we have this:
»

BFS: OCk?)

-

Bidirectional BFS:O0(k%? + k¥?), which is just O(k%?)

If you imagine a path like A- >B- >C->D->E where each person has 100 friends, this is a big difference.
BFS will require looking at 100 million (100%) nodes. A bidirectional BFS will require looking at only 20,000

nodes(2 x 100’).
A bidirectional BFS will generally be faster than the traditional BFS. However, it requires actually having
access to both the source node and the destination nodes, which is not always the case.

Step 2: Handle the Millions of Users

When we deal with a service the size of LinkedIn or Facebook, we cannot possibly keep all of our data on
one machine. That means that our simple Person data structure from above doesnt quite work—our

friends may not live on the same machine as we do. Instead, we can replace our list of friends with a list of
their IDs, and traverse as follows:

1. Foreach friend ID: int machine_index = getMachineIDForUser(personID)
;
2.

Goto machine #machine_index

3. Onthat machine, do:Person friend = getPersonWithID(person_id)
;
The code below outlines this process. We've defined a class Server, which holds a list of all the machines,
anda

class Machine, which represents a single machine, Both classes have hash tables to efficiently lookup

data.
1

class

Server

{

2

HashMap<Integer,

Machine> machines

EY

HashMap<Integer,

Integer> personToMachineMap = new HashMap<Integer,

= new HashMap<Integer,

Machine>();

Integer>();

4

5

public Machine getMachineWithid(int machineID)

6

{

return machines.get(machineID)
;

7
&
g

public

1e

int

getMachineIDForUser(int

personID)

{

Integer machineID = personToMachineMap.get(personID);

ital

return machineID == null

12

?

-1

:

machineID;

}

13

14

public

Person getPersonWithID(int

personID)

{

45

Integer machineID = personToMachineMap.get(personID)
;

16

if

(machineID == null)

return null;

1?

18

Machine machine = getMachineWithId(machineID)
;

19

if

(machine

== null)

return

null;

28
21

return

Ad
23

machine. getPersonWithID(personID)
;

}
}

24

25

class Person {

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

377

Solutions to Chapter 9 | System Design and Scalability
26

private ArrayList<Integer> friends = new ArrayList<Integer>();

27

private int personID;

28

private String info;

29

3e

public Person(int id)

31

public String getInfo() { return info;

{ this.personID = id;

32

public void setInfo(String info)

25

public ArrayList<Integer> getFriends()

34

public int getID()

35

public void addFriend(int id)

{

}

}

{ this.info = info;

return personID;

}

{ return friends;

}

}

{ friends.add(id);

}

}
36

There are more optimizations and follow-up questions here than we could possibly discuss, but here are
just a few possibilities.
Optimization: Reduce machine jumps
Jumping from one machine to another is expensive. Instead of randomly jumping from machine to machine

with each friend, try to batch these jumps—e.g,, if five of my friends live on one machine, | should look them
up all at once.

Optimization: Smart division of people and machines

People are much more likely to be friends with people who live in the same country as they do. Rather than
randomly dividing people across machines, try to divide them by country, city, state, and so on. This will

reduce the number of jumps.

Question: Breadth-first search usually requires “marking” a node as visited. How do you do that in
this case?

Usually, in BFS, we mark a node as visited by setting a visited flag in its node class. Here, we don’t want to
do that. There could be multiple searches going on at the same time, so it’s a bad idea to just edit our data.
Instead, we could mimic the marking of nodes with a hash table to look up a node id and determine
whether it’s been visited.

Other Follow-Up Questions:

-

Inthe real world, servers fail. How does this affect you?

*

How could you take advantage of caching?

*

Doyou search until the end of the graph (infinite)? How do you decide when to give up?

*

Inreal life, some people have more friends of friends than others, and are therefore more likely to make
a path between you and someone else. How could you use this data to pick where to start traversing?

These are just a few of the follow-up questions you or the interviewer couid raise. There are many others.

9.3

Web Crawler: If you were designing a web crawler, how would you avoid getting into infinite loops?
pg 145

SOLUTION

The first thing to ask ourselves in this problem is how an infinite loop might occur. The simplest answer is

that, if we picture the web as a graph of links, an infinite loop will occurwhen a cycle occurs.

378

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 9 | System Design and Scalability
To prevent infinite loops, we just need to detect cycles. One way to do this is to create a hash table where
] to true after we visit page v.
we set hash[v
We can crawl the web using breadth-first search. Each time we visit a page, we gather all its links and insert
them at the end ofa queue. If we've already visited a page, we ignore it.
This is great—but what does it mean to visit page v? Is page v defined based on its content or its URL?

if it's defined based on its URL, we must recognize that URL parameters might indicate a completely

different page. For example, the page www. Careercup. com/page ?pid=microsoft-interviewquestions is totally different from the pagewww. careercup.com/page?pid=google-interviewquestions. But, we can also append URL parameters arbitrarily to any URL without truly changing the
page, provided it’s not a parameter that the web application recognizes and handles. The page www.

Ccareercup.com?foobar=hello is the same as www. careercup. com.
“Okay, then,” you might say, “let's define it based on its content.” That sounds good too, at first, but it also
doesn't quite work. Suppose | have some randomly generated content on the careercup.com home page.

Is it a different page each time you visit it? Not really.

The reality is that there is probably no perfect way to define a “different” page, and this is where this problem
gets tricky.

One way to tackle this is to have some sort of estimation for degree of similarity. If, based on the content

and the URL, a page is deemed to be sufficiently similar to other pages, we deprioritize crawling its children.
For each page, we would come up with some sort of signature based on snippets of the content and the
page's URL.

Let's see how this would work.

We have a database which stores a list of items we need to crawl. On each iteration, we select the highest
priority page to crawl. We then do the following:
1. Open up the page and create a signature of the page based on specific subsections of the page and its
URL.

2.

Query the database to see whether anything with this signature has been crawled recently.

3. If something with this signature has been recently crawled, insert this page back into the database at a
low priority.

4. If not, crawl the page and insert its links into the database.
Under the above implementation, we never “complete” crawling the web, but we will avoid getting stuck

in a loop of pages. If we want to allow for the possibility of “finishing” crawling the web (which would
clearly happen only if the“web’were actually a smaller system, like an intranet), then we can set

aminimum

priority that a page must have to be crawled.
This is just one, simplistic solution, and there are many others that are equally valid. A problem like this will

more likely resemble a conversation with your interviewer which could take any number of paths. In fact,
the discussion of this problem could have taken the path ofthe very next problem.

Cracking TheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

379

Solutions to Chapter 9 | System Design and Scalability
9.4

Duplicate URLs: You have 10 billion URLs. How do you detect the duplicate documents? In this
case, assume “duplicate” means that the URLs are identical.
pg 145

SOLUTION

Just how much Space do 10 billion URLs take up? If each URL is an average of 100 characters, and each character is 4 bytes, then this list of 10 billion URLs will take up about 4 terabytes. We are probably not going to

hold that much data in memory.
But, let’s just pretend for

amoment that we were miraculously holding this data in memory, since it’s useful

to first construct a solution for the simple version. Under this version of the problem, we would just create a
hash table where each URL maps to trueif it’s already been found elsewhere in the list. (As an alternative
solution, we could sort the list and look for the duplicate values that way. That will take a bunch of extra
time and offers few advantages.)
Now that we have a solution for the simple version, what happens when we have all 4000 gigabytes of data
and we can't store it all in memory? We could solve this either by storing some of the data on disk or by
splitting up the data across machines.

Solution #1: Disk Storage

If we stored all the data on one machine, we would do two passes of the document. The first pass would
split the list of URLs into 4000 chunks of 1 GB each. An easy way to do that might be to store each URL u in

a filenamed <x>.txt wherex = hash(u) % 40@@.That is, we divide up the URLs based on theirhash
value (modulo the number of chunks). This way, all URLs with the same hash value would be in the same file.
In the second pass, we would essentially implement the simple solution we came up with earlier: load each

file into memory, create a hash table of the URLs, and look for duplicates.

Solution #2: Multiple Machines

The other solution is to perform essentially the same procedure, but to use multiple machines. in this solution, rather than storing the data in file <x>. txt, we would send the URL to machine x.
Using multiple machines has pros and cons.
The main pro is that we can parallelize the operation, such that all 4000 chunks are processed simultaneously. For large amounts of data, this might result in a faster solution.

The disadvantage though is that we are now relying on 4000 different machines to operate perfectly. That
may not be realistic (particularly with more data and more machines), and we'll need to start considering

how to handle failure. Additionally, we have increased the complexity of the system simply by involving so
many machines.
Both are good solutions, though, and both should be discussed with your interviewer.

380

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 9 | System Design and Scalability
9.5

Cache: Imagine a web server for a simplified search engine. This system has 100 machines to

respond to search queries, which may then call out using processSearch(string

query)

to another cluster of machines to actually get the result. The machine which responds to a given
query is chosen at random, so you cannot guarantee that the same machine will always respond to
the same request.
The method processSearch is very expensive. Design a caching mechanism

to cache the results of the most recent queries. Be sure to explain how you would update the cache
when data changes.
pg 145

SOLUTION

Before getting into the design ofthis system, we first have to understand what the question means. Many of

the details are somewhat ambiquous, as is expected in questions like this.
We will make reasonable assumptions for the purposes of this solution, but you should discuss these details—in depth—with your interviewer.

Assumptions

Here are a few of the assumptions we make for this solution. Depending on the design of your system and
how you approach the problem, you may make other assumptions. Remember that while some approaches
are better than others, there is no one “correct” approach.

+

Other than calling out to processSearch as necessary, all query processing happens on the initial
machine that was called.

*

The number of queries we wish to cache is large (millions).

*

Calling between machines is relatively quick.

-

The result fora given query is an ordered list of URLs, each of which has an associated 50 character title
and 200 character summary.

+

The most popular queries are extremely popular, such that they would always appear in the cache.

Again, these aren't the only valid assumptions. This is just one reasonable set of assumptions.

System Requirements
When designing the cache, we know we'll need to support two primary functions:

*

Efficient lookups given a key.

+

Expiration of old data so that it can be replaced with new data.

In addition, we must also handle updating or clearing the cache when the results for a query change.

Because some queries are very common and may permanently reside in the cache, we cannot just wait for

the cache to naturally expire.

Step 1: Design a Cache for a Single System
A good way to approach this problem is to start by designing it for a single machine. So, how would you

create a data structure that enables you to easily purge old data and also efficiently look up a value based
ona key?

-

A linked list would allow easy purging of old data, by moving “fresh” items to the front. We could implement it to remove the last element of the linked list when the list exceeds a certain size.

CrackingTheCodingtnterview.com | 6th Edition

381

Solutions to Chapter 9 | System Design and Scalability
Ahash table allows efficient lookups of data, but it wouldn't ordinarily allow easy data purging.

-

How can we get the best of both worlds? By merging the two data structures. Here’s how this works:

Just as before, we create a linked list where a node is moved to the front every time it’s accessed. This way,
the end of the linked list will always contain the stalest information.
In addition, we have a hash table that maps from a query to the corresponding node in the linked list. This

allows us to not only efficiently return the cached results, but also to move the appropriate node to the
front of the list, thereby updating its “freshness.”
For illustrative purposes, abbreviated code for the cache is below. The code attachment provides the full

code for this part. Note that in your interview, it is unlikely that you would be asked to write the full code for
this as well as perform the design for the larger system.
4

public

class

Cache {

2

public static

Sg

public Node head, tail;

int MAX SIZE

4

public HashMap<String,

5

public int size = 0;

= 10;

Node> map;

&

7,

public Cache() {

8

map = new HashMap<String,

9

Node>();

}

18

1

/* Moves node to front of linked list */

12

public void moveToFront(Node node) {

...

}

13

public void moveToFront(String query)

{

...

}

14

415

/* Removes node from linked list */

16

public void removeFromLinkedList(Node node) {

...

18

/* Gets

list

19

public String[] getResults(String query)

}

i?

28

results

from

cache,

and

updates

if (!map.containsKey(query))

linked

*/

{

return null;

a

22

Node node = map.get (query) ;

rig

moveToFront(node); // update freshness

24
25

return node.results;
}

26

2?

/*

list and

hash */

28

public void insertResults(String query,

String[]

29

Inserts
if

36

results

into linked

(map.containsKey(query))

{

// update values

Node node = map.get(query)
;

31

node.results = results;

Sia

moveToFront(node); // update freshness

33

34

return;

}

Ss

as

Node node = new Node(query,

37

moveToFront (node) ;

38

map.put (query,

results);

node);

3%

AG

if

41,
A2

43

382

(size >

MAX SIZE)

{

map.remove(tail.query);
removeFromLinkedList
(tail) ;

sf

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

results)

{

Solutions to Chapter 9 | System Design and Scalability
4A

i

as
}

Step 2: Expand to Many Machines

Now that we understand how to design this for a single machine, we need to understand how we would
design this when queries could be sent to many different machines. Recall from the problem statement that
thare’s no guarantee that a particular query will be consistently sent to the same machine.

The first thing we need to decide is to what extent the cache is shared across machines. We have several
options to consider.
Option 1: Each machine has its own cache.

Asimple option is to give each machine its own cache. This means that if”’Foo” is sent to machine 1 twice in
a short amount of time, the result would be recalled from the cache on the second time. But, if’ foo” is sent
first to machine 1 and then to machine 2, it would be treated as a totally fresh query both times.
This has the advantage of being relatively quick, since no machine-to-machine calls are used. The cache,
unfortunately, is somewhat less effective as an optimization tool as many repeat queries would be treated
as fresh queries.
Option 2: Each machine has a copy of the cache.
On the other extreme, we could give each machine a complete copy of the cache. When new items are

added to the cache, they are sent to all machines. The entire data structure—linked list and hash table—
would be duplicated.
This design means that common queries would nearly always be in the cache, as the cache is the same
everywhere. The major drawback however is that updating the cache means firing off data to N different
machines, where N is the size of the response cluster. Additionally, because each item effectively takes up N
times as much space, our cache would hold much less data.

Option 3: Each machine stores a segment of the cache.
A third option is to divide up the cache, such that each machine holds a different part of it. Then, when

machine i needs to look up the results for a query, machine i would figure out which machine holds this
value, and then ask this other machine (machine j) to look up the query in j’s cache.
But how would machine i know which machine holds this part of the hash table?

One option is to assign queries based on the formula hash (query) % N. Then, machine i only needs to
apply this formula to know that machine j should store the results for this query.

So, when a new query comes in to machine i, this machine would apply the formula and call out to machine

j. Machine j would then return the value from its cache or call processSearch(query
) to get the
results. Machine j would update its cache and return the results back to i.
Alternatively, you could design the system such that machine j just returns null if it doesn’t have the

query in its current cache. This would require machine i to call processSearch and then forward
the results to machine j for storage. This implementation actually increases the number of machine-tomachine calls, with few advantages.

CrackingTheCoding|nterview.com | 6th Edition

383

Solutions to Chapter 9 | System Design and Scalability
Step 3: Updating results when contents change

Recall that some queries may be so popular that, with a sufficiently large cache, they would permanently

be cached. We need some sort of mechanism to allow cached results to be refreshed, either periodically or
“on-demand” when certain content changes.

To answer this question, we need to consider when results would change (and you need to discuss this with
your interviewer). The primary times would be when:
1. The content at a URL changes (or the page at that URL is removed).
2, The ordering of results change in response to the rank of a page changing.

3. New pages appear related to a particular query.
To handle situations #1 and #2, we could create a separate hash table that would tell us which cached

queries are tied to a specific URL. This could be handled completely separately from the other caches, and
reside on different machines. However, this solution may require a lot of data.
Alternatively, if the data doesn’trequireinstant refreshing (which it probably doesn't), we could periodically
crawl through the cache stored on each machine to purge queries tied to the updated URLs.

Situation #3 is substantially more difficult to handle. We could update single word queries by parsing the

content at the new URL and purging these one-word queries from the caches. But, this will only handle the
one-word queries.

A good way to handle Situation #3 (and likely something we'd want to do anyway) is to implement an “automatic time-out”
on the cache. That is, we'd impose a time out where no query, regardless of how popular it
is, can sit in the cache for more than x minutes. This will ensure that all data is periodically refreshed.

Step 4: Further Enhancements

There are a number of improvements and tweaks you could make to this design depending on the assumptions you make and the situations you optimize for.
One such optimization is to better support the situation where some queries are very popular. For example,

suppose (as an extreme example) a particular string constitutes 1% of all queries. Rather than machine i

forwarding the request to machine j every time, machine i could forward the request just once to j, and
then i could store the results in its own cache as well.

Alternatively, there may also be some possibility of doing some sort of re-architecture of the system to
assign queries to machines based on their hash value (and therefore the location of the cache), rather than
randomly. However, this decision may come with its own set of trade-offs.
Another optimization we could make is to the “automatic time out” mechanism. As initially described, this

mechanism purges any data after X minutes. However, we may want to update some data (like current
news) much more frequently than other data (like historical stock prices). We could implement timeouts
based on topic or based on URLs. In the latter situation, each URL would have a time out value based on

how frequently the page has been updated in the past. The time out for the query would be the minimum
of the time outs for each URL.

These are just a few of the enhancements we can make. Remember that in questions like this, there is no
single correct way to solve the problem. These questions are about having a discussion with your interviewer about design criteria and demonstrating your general approach and methodology.

384

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 9 | System Design and Scalability
9.6

Sales Rank: A large eCommerce company wishes to list the best-selling products, overall and by

category. For example, one product might be the #1056th best-selling product overall but the #13th
best-selling product under “Sports Equipment”
and the #24th best-selling product under “Safety.”
Describe how you would design this system.
pg 145

SOLUTION

Let's first start off by making some assumptions to define the problem.

Step 1: Scope the Problem
First, we need to define what exactly we're building.
-

We'll assume that we're only being asked to design the components relevant to this question, and not
the entire eCommerce system. In this case, we might touch the design of the frontend and purchase
components, but only as it impacts the sales rank.

-

We should also define what the sales rank means. Is it total sales over all time? Sales in the last month?
Last week? Or some more complicated function (such as one involving some sort of exponential decay
of sales data)? This would be something to discuss with your interviewer. We will assume that it is simply
the total sales over the past week.

+

Wewill assume that each product can be in multiple categories, and that there is no concept of “subcategories.”

This part just gives us a good idea of what the problem, or scope of features, is.

Step 2: Make Reasonable Assumptions
These are the sorts of things you'd want to discuss with your interviewer. Because we don't have an interviewer in front of us, we'll have to make some assumptions.
+

We will assume that the stats do not need to be 100% up-to-date. Data can be up to an hour old for the
most popular items (for example, top 100 in each category), and up to one day old for the less popular
items. That is, few people would care if the #2,809,132th best-selling item should have actually been
listed as #2,789,1 58th instead.

-

Precision is important for the most popular items, but a small degree of error is okay for the less popular
items,

-

We will assume that the data should be updated every hour (for the most popular items), but the time
range for this data does not need to be precisely the last seven days (168 hours). If it’s sometimes more
like

*

150 hours, that’s okay.

Wewill assume that the categorizations are based strictly on the origin of the transaction (i.e., the seller's
name), not the price or date.

The important thing is not so much which decision you made at each possible issue, but whether it occurred
to you that these are assumptions. We should get out as many of these assumptions as possible in the

beginning. it's possible you will need to make other assumptions along the way.

Step 3: Draw the Major Components

We should now design just a basic, naive system that describes the major components. This is where you

would go up to a whiteboard.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

385

Solutions to Chapter 9 | System Design and Scalability

purchase
system

orders added to db

acne sales rank

<

astabase

In this simple design, we store every order as soon as it comes into the database. Every hour or so, we pull
sales data from the database by category, compute the total sales, sort it, and store it in some sort of sales
rank data cache (which is probably held in memory).
The frontend just pulls the sales rank from this table,
rather than hitting the standard database and doing its own analytics.

Step 4: Identify the Key Issues
Analytics are Expensive

In the naive system, we periodically query the database for the number of sales in the past week for each
product. This will be fairly expensive. That's running a query over all sales for all time.
Our database just needs to track the total sales. We'll assume (as noted in the beginning of the solution)
that the general storage for purchase history is taken care of in other parts of the system, and wejust need
to focus on the sales data analytics.
Instead of listing every purchase in our database, we'll store just the total sales from the last week. Each
purchase will just update the total weekly sales.
Tracking the total sales takes a bit of thought. If we just use a single column to track the total sales over the
past week, then we'll need to re-compute the total sales every day (since the specific days covered in the
last seven days change with each day). That is unnecessarily expensive.
Instead, we'll just use a table like this.

This is essentially like a circular array. Each day, we clear out the corresponding day of the week. On each
purchase, we update the total sales count for that product on that day of the week, as well as the total
count.

We will also need a separate table to store the associations of product IDs and categories.

To get the sales rank per category, we'll need to join these tables.

386

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 9 | System Design and Scalability
Database Writes are Very Frequent

Even with this change, we'll still be hitting the database very frequently. With the amount of purchases that
could come in every second, we'll probably want to batch up the database writes.
Instead of immediately committing each purchase to the database, we could store purchases in some sort

of in-memory cache (as well as to a log file as a backup). Periodically, we'll process the log / cache data,
gather the totals, and update the database.

:

We should quickly think about whether or not it's feasible to hold this in memory. If there are 10

million products in the system, can we store each (along with a count) in a hash table? Yes. If each

product ID is four bytes (which is big enough to hold up to 4 billion unique IDs) and each count

is four bytes (more than enough), then such a hash table would only take about 40 megabytes.
Even with some additional overhead and substantial system growth, we would still be able to fit
this all in memory.

After updating the database, we can re-run the sales rank data.

We need to be a bit careful here, though. If we process one product's logs before another's, and re-run the
stats in between, we could create a bias in the data (since we're including a larger timespan for one product
than its “competing” product).

We can resolve this by either ensuring that the sales rank doesn’t run until all the stored data is processed
(difficult to do when more and more purchases are coming in), or by dividing up the in-memory cache by

some time period. If we update the database for all the stored data up to a particular moment in time, this
ensures that the database will not have biases.
Joins are Expensive

We have potentially tens of thousands of product categories. For each category, we'll need to first pull the

data for its items (possibly through an expensive join) and then sort those.
Alternatively, we could just do one join of products and categories, such that each product will be listed
once per category. Then, if we sorted that on category and then product ID, we could just walk the results
to get the sales rank for each category.

Prod
ID | Category | Total | Sun | Mon | Tues | Wed| Thurs | Fri | Sat
1423

1423

|sportseq/13

| safety

[13

| 4

|

1

|

4

|

19

|

| 4

|

1

|

4

|

19 |

322 | 32 |

322

232

| 32 | 232

Rather than running thousands of queries (one for each category), we could sort the data on the category
first and then the sales volume. Then, if we walked those results, we would get the sales rank for each
category. We would also need to do one sort of the entire table on just sales number, to get the overall rank.
We could also just keep the data in a table like this from the beginning, rather than doing joins. This would
require us to update multiple rows for each product.

Database Queries Might Still Be Expensive

Alternatively, if the queries and writes get very expensive, we could consider forgoing a database entirely
and just using log files. This would allow us to take advantage of something like MapReduce.

Under this system, we would write a purchase to a simple text file with the product ID and time stamp. Each
category has its own directory, and each purchase gets written to all the categories associated with that
product.

CrackingTheCoding!nterview.com | 6th Edition

387

Solutions to Chapter 9 | System Design and Scalability
We would run frequent jobs to merge flles together by product !D and time ranges, so that eventually all
purchases in a given day {or possibly hour) were grouped together.

/sportsequipment
1423,Dec 13 08:23-Dec 13 08:23,1

4221,Dec

13

15:22-Dec

15 15:45,5

/safety
1423,Dec

13 08:23-Dec 13 98:23,1

5221,Dec

12

93:19-Dec

12 93:28,19

To get the best-selling products within each category, we just need to sort each directory.
How do we get the overall ranking? There are two good approaches:

-

We could treat the general category as just another directory, and write every purchase to that directory.
That would meana lot of files in this directory.

¢

Or, since we'll already have the products sorted by sales volume order for each category, we can also do

an N-way merge to get the overall rank.
Alternatively, we can take advantage of the fact that the data doesn't need (as we assumed earlier) to be
100% up-to-date. We just need the most popular items to be up-to-date.

We can merge the most popular items from each category in a pairwise fashion. So, two categories get
paired together and we merge the most popular items (the first 100 or so). After we have 100 items in this
sorted order, we stop merging this pair and move onto the next pair.
To get the ranking for all products, we can be much lazier and only run this work once a day.

One of the advantages of this is that it scales nicely. We can easily divide up the files across multiple servers,
as they aren't dependent on each other.

Follow Up Questions

The interviewer could push this design in any number of directions.
*

Where do you think you'd hit the next bottlenecks? What would you do about that?

«

What if there were subcategories as well? So items could be listed under “Sports” and “Sports Equipment” (or even “Sports” > “Sports Equipment” > “Tennis” > “Rackets”)?

-

What if data needed to be more accurate? What if it needed to be accurate within 30 minutes for all
products?

Think through your design carefully and analyze it for the tradeoffs. You might also be asked to go into more
detail on any specific aspect of the product.

9.7.

__— Personal Financial Manager: Explain how you would design a personal financial manager (like
Mint.com). This system would connect to your bank accounts, analyze your spending habits, and
make recommendations.
pg 145

SOLUTION

The first thing we need to do is define what it is exactly that we are building.

388

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 9 | System Design and Scalability
Step 1: Scope the Problem
Ordinarily, you would clarify this system with your interviewer. We'll scope the problem as follows:
You create an account and add your bank accounts. You can add multiple bank accounts. You can also
add them at a later point in time.

It pulls in all your financial history, or as much of it as your bank will allow.

This financial history includes outgoing money (things you bought or paid for), incoming money (salary

and other payments), and your current money (what's in your bank account and investments).
Each payment transaction has a “category” associated with it (food, travel, clothing, etc.).
There is some sort of data source provided that tells the system, with some reliability, which category a
transaction is associated with. The user might, in some cases, override the category when it's improperly

assigned (e.g., eating at the cafe of a department store getting assigned to “clothing” rather than “food").
Users will use the system to get recommendations on their spending. These recommendations will

come from a mix of “typical” users (“people generally shouldn't spend more than X% of their income
on clothing”), but can be overridden with custom budgets. This will not be a primary focus right now.
We assume this is just a website for now, although we could potentially talk about a mobile app as well.
We probably want email notifications either on a regular basis, or on certain conditions (spending over
a certain threshold, hitting a budget max, etc.).
.

We'll assume that there’s no concept of user-specified rules for assigning categories to transactions.

This gives us a basic goal for what we want to build.

Step 2: Make Reasonable Assumptions
Now that we have the basic goal for the system, we should define some further assumptions about the
characteristics of the system.
Adding or removing bank accounts is relatively unusual.

The system is write-heavy. A typical user may make several new transactions daily, although few users
would access the website more than once a week. In fact, for many users, their primary interaction might
be through email alerts.
Once a transaction is assigned to a category, it will only be changed if the user asks to change it. The

system will never reassign a transaction to a different category “behind the scenes’, even if the rules
change. This means that two otherwise identical transactions could be assigned to different categories
if the rules changed in between each transaction’s date. We do this because it may confuse usersif their
spending per category changes with no action on their part.
The banks probably won't push data to our system. Instead, we will need to pull data from the banks.
Alerts on users exceeding budgets probably do not need to be sent instantaneously. (That wouldn't be

realistic anyway, since we won't get the transaction data instantaneously.) It’s probably pretty safe for
them to be up to 24 hours delayed.

It's okay to make different assumptions here, but you should explicitly state them to your interviewer.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

389

Solutions to Chapter 9 | System Design and Scalability
Step 3: Draw the Major Components
The most naive system would be one that pulls bank data on each login, categorizes all the data, and then

analyzes the user's budget. This wouldn't quite fit the requirements, though, as we want email notifications
on particular events.
We can doa

bit better.
bank data
synchronizer
Ad

raw transaction

eg

.

>

data

categorizer

Vv

frontend

categorized

<->

g :

transactions

4

:
budget data

[“—)

budget analyzer

With this basic architecture, the bank data is pulled at periodic times (hourly or daily). The frequency may
depend on the behavior of the users. Less active users may have their accounts checked less frequently.
Once new data arrives, it is stored in some list of raw, unprocessed transactions. This data is then pushed to
the categorizer, which assigns each transaction to a category and stores these categorized transactions in
another datastore.

The budget analyzer pulls in the categorized transactions, updates each user's budget per category, and
stores the user’s budget.
The frontend pulls data from both the categorized transactions datastore as well as from the budget datastore. Additionally, a user could also interact with the frontend by changing the budget or the categorization
of their transactions.

Step 4: Identify the Key Issues

We should now reflect on what the major issues here might be.
This will be a very data-heavy system. We want it to feel snappy and responsive, though, so we'll want as
much processing as possible to be asynchronous.
We will almost certainly want at least one task queue, where we can queue up work that needs to be done.
This work will include tasks such as pulling in new bank data, re-analyzing budgets, and categorizing new
bank data. It would also include re-trying tasks that failed.
These tasks will likely have some sort of priority associated with them, as some need to be performed more
often than others. We want to build a task queue system that can prioritize some task types over others,

while still ensuring that all tasks will be performed eventually. That is, we wouldn't want a low priority task
to essentially “starve” because there are always higher priority tasks.
One important part of the system that we haven't yet addressed will be the email system. We could use a
task to regularly crawl user's data to checkif they’re exceeding their budget, but that means checking every

390

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 9 | System Design and Scalability
single user daily. instead, we'll want to queue a task whenever a transaction occurs that potentially exceeds
a budget. We can store the current budget totals by category to make it easy to understand if a new transac-

tion exceeds the budget.
We should also consider incorporating the knowledge (or assumption) that a system like this will probably
have a large number of inactive users—users who signed up once and then haven't touched the system

since. We may want to either remove them from the system entirely or deprioritize their accounts. We'll
want some system to track their account activity and associate priority with their accounts.
The biggest bottleneck in our system will likely be the massive amount of data that needs to be pulled
and analyzed. We should be able to fetch the bank data asynchronously and run these tasks across many
servers. We should drill a bit deeper into how the categorizer and budget analyzer work.
Categorizer and Budget Analyzer

One thing to note is that transactions are not dependent on each other. As soon as we get a transaction fOr
a user, we can categorize it and integrate this data. It might be inefficient to do so, but it won't cause any
inaccuracies.

Should we use a standard database for this? With lots of transactions coming in at once, that might not be

very efficient. We certainly don't want to do a bunchof joins.
It may be better instead to just store the transactions to a set of flat text files. We assumed earlier that the
categorizations are based on the seller's name alone. If we’re assuming a lot of users, then there will be a lot
of duplicates across the sellers. If we group the transaction files by seller's name, we can take advantage of
these duplicates.
The categorizer can do something like this:
raw transaction data, _»| categorized data,
grouped by seller

grouped by user

update categorized
transactions

merge & group by
user & category

|
update budgets

It first gets the raw transaction data, grouped by seller. It picks the appropriate category for the seller (which
might be stored in a cache for the most common sellers), and then applies that category to all those transactions.

After applying the category, it re-groups all the transactions by user. Then, those transactions are inserted

into the datastore for this user.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

391

Solutions to Chapter 9 | System Design and Scalability

|

:

fter

amazon/

catego

user121/

user121,$5.43,Aug 13

amazon, shopping,$5.43,Aug 13

user922,$15.39,Aug 27
aay

sles
user922/

comcast/

amazon, shopping, $15.39,Aug 27

user922,$9.29,Aug 24

comcast, utilities ,$9.29,Aug 24

user248 ,$40.13,Aug 18

,

‘ee

user248/
comcast, utilities, $40.13,Aug 18

Then, the budget analyzer comes in. It takes the data grouped by user, merges it across categories (so all

Shopping tasks for this user in this timespan are merged), and then updates the budget.
Most of these tasks will be handled in simple log files. Only the final data (the categorized transactions and
the budget analysis) will be stored in a database.
This minimizes writing and reading from the database.
User Changing Categories

The user might selectively override particular transactions to assign them to a different category. In this
case, we would update the datastore for the categorized transactions. It would also signal a quick recom-

putation of the budget to decrement the item from the old category and increment the item in the other
category.

We could also just recompute the budget from scratch. The budget analyzer is fairly quick as it just needs to
look over the past few weeks of transactions for a single user.

Follow Up Questions
*

How would this change if you also needed to support a mobile app?

-

How would you design the component which assigns items to each category?

How would you design the recommended budgets feature?
-

How would you change

this if the user could develop rules to categorize all transactions from a partic-

ular seller differently than the default?

9.8

Pastebin: Design a system like Pastebin, where a user can enter a piece of text and get a randomly

generated URL for public access.
pg 145

SOLUTION

We can start with clarifying the specifics of this system.

Step 1: Scope the Problem

-

The system does not support user accounts or editing documents.

*

The system tracks analytics of how many times each page is accessed.

«

Old documents get deleted after not being accessed for a sufficiently long period of time.

*

While there isn't true authentication on accessing documents, users should not be able to “guess” docu-

392

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 9 | System Design and Scalability
ment URLs easily.
*

The system has a frontend as well as an API.

.

The analytics for each URL can be accessed through a “stats" link on each page. It is not shown by default,
though.

Step 2: Make Reasonable Assumptions

»

The system gets heavy traffic and contains many millions of documents.

-

Traffic is not equally distributed across documents. Some documents get much more access than others.

Step 3: Draw the Major Components

We can sketch out a simple design. We'll need to keep track of URLs and the files associated with them, as
well as analytics for how often the files have been accessed.
How should we store the documents? We have two options: we can store them in a database or we can
store them on a file. Since the documents can be large and it’s unlikely we need searching capabilities,
storing them on a file is probably the better choice.
A simple design like this might work well:

URL to File

Vv

server with files

server with files

Database

server with files

Here, we have a simple database that looks up the location (server and path) of each file. When we have a

request for a URL, we look up the location of the URL within the datastore and then access the file.
Additionally, we will need a database that tracks analytics. We can do this with a simple datastore that adds
each visit (including timestamp, IP address, and location) as a row in a database. When we need to access
the stats of each visit, we pull the relevant data in from this database.

Step 4: Identify the Key Issues

The first issue that comes to mind is that some documents will be accessed much more frequently than
others. Reading data from the filesystem is relatively slow compared with reading from data in memory.
Therefore, we probably want to use a cache to store the most recently accessed documents.
This will ensure

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

393

Solutions to Chapter 9 | System Design and Scalability
that items accessed very frequently (or very recently) will be quickly accessible. Since documents cannot be
edited, we will not need to worry about invalidating this cache.

We should also potentially consider sharding the database. We can shard it using some mapping from the

URL (for example, the URL's hash code modulo some integer), which will allow us to quickly locate the database which contains this file.
In fact, we could even take this a step further. We could skip the database entirely and just let a hash of the

URL indicate whichserver contains the document. The URL

itself could reflect the location of the document.

One potential issue from this is that if we need to add servers, it could be difficult to redistribute the documents.

Generating URLs

We have not yet discussed how to actually generate the URLs. We probably do not want a monotonically
increasing integer value, as this would be easy for a user to “quess.’
We want URLs to be difficult to access
without being provided the link.
One simple path is to generate a random GUID (e.g., SdS50e8ac-57cb-4a0d-8661-bcdee2548979).
This is a
128-bit value that, while not strictly guaranteed to be unique, has low enough odds of a collision that we
can treat it as unique. The drawback of this plan is that such a URL is not very “pretty”
to the user. We could
hash it to a smaller value, but then that increases the odds of collision.
We could do something very similar, though. We could just generate a 10-character sequence of letters

and numbers, which gives us 36'° possible strings. Even with a billion URLs, the odds of a collision on any
specific URL are very low.

This is not to say that the odds of a collision over the whole system are low. They are not. Any one

specific URL is unlikely to collide. However, after storing a billion URLs, we are very likely to have
a collision at some point.

Assuming that we aren’t okay with periodic (even if unusual) data loss, we'll need to handle these collisions.

We can either check the datastore to see if the URL exists yet or, if the URL maps to a specific server, just
detect whether a file already exists at the destination.
Whena collision occurs, we can just generate a new URL. With 36" possible URLs, collisions would be rare
enough that the lazy approach here (detect collisions and retry) is sufficient.
Analytics

The final component to discuss is the analytics piece. We probably want to display the number of visits, and
possibly break this down by location or time.
We have two options here:
+

Store the raw data from each visit.

-

Store just the data we know we'll use (number of visits, etc.).

You can discuss this with your interviewer, but it probably makes sense to store the raw data. We never
know what features we'll add to the analytics down the road. The raw data allows us flexibility.
This does not mean that the raw data needs to be easily searchable or even accessible. We can just store a

log of each visit in a file, and back this up to other servers.

394

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 9 ) System Design and Scalability
One issue here is that this amount of data could be substantial.
We could potentially reduce the space usage
considerably by storing data only probabilistically. Each URL would havea storage_probability associated with it. As the popularity of a site goes up, the storage _probability goes down. For example,

a popular document might have data logged only one out of every ten times, at random. When we look

up the number of visits for the site, we'll need to adjust the value based on the probability (for example, by
Multiplying it by 10). This will of course lead to a small inaccuracy, but that may be acceptable.

The log files are not designed to be used frequently. We will want to also store this precomputed data in a
datastore. If the analytics just displays the number of visits plus a graph over time, this could be kept ina
separate database.

12ab31b92p

December

29013

242119

12ab31b92p

January 2014

429918

Every time a URL is visited, we can increment the appropriate row and column. This datastore can also be
sharded by the URL.

As the stats are not listed on the regular pages and would generally be of less interest, it should not face as
heavy of aload. We could still cache the generated HTML on the frontend servers, so that we don't continuously reaccess the data for the most popular URLs.

Follow-Up Questions

-

How would you support user accounts?

*

How would you add a new piece of analytics (e.g., referral source) to the stats page?

-

How would your design change if the stats were shown with each document?

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

395

Solutions to Sorting and Searching

10.1

Sorted Merge: You are given two sorted arrays, A and B, where A has a large enough buffer at the
end to hold B. Write a method to merge B into A in sorted order.
pg 149

SOLUTION

Since we know that A has enough buffer at the end, we won't need to allocate additional space. Our logic
should involve simply comparing elements of
A and B and inserting them in order, until we've exhausted
all elements in A and inB.

The only issue with this is that if we insert an element into the front of A, then we'll have to shift the existing
elements backwards to make room for it. It's better to insert elements into the back of the array, where
there's empty space.
The code below does just that. it works from the back ofA and B, moving the largest elements to the back

of A.
1

void merge(int[]

a,

int[]

b,

int lastA,

int lastB)

{

2

int

indexA = lastA -

1;

/* Index of last element

3

int indexB = lastB -

1;

/* Index of last element in array b */

4

int indexMerged = lastB + lastA -

1;

in

array a */

/* end of merged array */

5

6

/* Merge a and b,

7

while

starting from the last element in each */

(indexB >= @)

{

8

/* end of a is > than end of b */

9

if (indexA >= 0 && af[indexA]

10

a[indexMerged]

Lil

indexA-;

12

} else {

13

a[indexMerged] = b[indexB]; // copy element

14

indexB- ;

15

}

16

indexMerged--;

Ay

18

> b[indexB]) {

= a[indexA]; // copy element

// move indices

}

}

Note that you don't need to copy the contents of A after running out of elements in B. They are already in
place.

396

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 10 | Sorting and Searching
10.2.

Group Anagrams: Write a method to sort an array of strings so that all the anagrams are next to
each other.

pg t50
SOLUTION

This problem asks us to group the strings in an array such that the anagrams appear next to each other.
Note that no specific ordering of the words is required, other than this.
We need a quick and easy way of determining if two strings are anagrams of each other. What defines if two
words are anagrams of each other? Well, anagrams are words that have the same characters but in different
orders. It follows then that if we can put the characters in the same order, we can easily check if the new

words are identical.
One way to do this is to just apply any standard sorting algorithm, like merge sort or quick sort, and modify
the comparator. This comparator will be used to indicate that two strings which are anagrams of each other
are equivalent.

What's the easiest way of checking if two words are anagrams? We could count the occurrences of the
distinct characters in each string and return true if they match. Or, we could just sort the string. After all,
two words which are anagrams will look the same once they're sorted.
The code below implements the comparator.
1

class AnagramComparator implements Comparator<String> {

2

public String sortChars(String s)

3

char[]

4

Arrays.sort(content)
;

5

{

content = s.toCharArray();

return new String(content)
;

6

}

?

8

public int compare(String si,

8

return

19

11

String s2) {

sortChars(s1).compareTo(sortChars(s2));

}

}

Now, just sort the arrays using this CompareTo method instead of the usual one.

12

Arrays.sort(array, new AnagramComparator());

This algorithm will take O(n

log(n)

) time.

This may be the best we can do fOr a general sorting algorithm, but we don't actually need to fully sort the

array. We only need to group the strings in the array by anagram.
We can do this by using a hash table which maps from the sorted version ofa word to a list of its anagrams.

So, fOr example, acre will map to the list {acre,

race,

care}. Once we've grouped all the words into

these lists by anagram, we can then put them back into the array.

NR

void sort(String[]

ON RV

The code below implements this algorithm.

for (String s

array)

{

HashMapList<String, String> mapList = new HashMapList<String,
7*

Group

words

by

:

anagram

String>();

*/

array) {

String key = sortChars(s);
mapList.put(key,

s);

}

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

397

Solutions to Chapter 10 { Sorting and Searching

18

/

44

int index = 0;

*Convert

hash table to array */

12

for (String key : mapList.keySet()) {

13

ArrayList<String> list = mapList.get(key)
;

14

for (String t : list) {

15

array[index] = t;

16

index++;

17

}

18
19

iT
}

28

21

String sortChars(String s)

{

22

char[] content = s.toCharArray();

23

Arrays .sort(content)
;

24
25

return new String(content)
;
}

2S

27

/

28

*HashMapList<String,

Integer> is a HashMap that maps from Strings to

* ArrayList<Integer>.

See appendix for implementation.

*/

You may notice that the algorithm above is a modification of bucket sort.

10.3

Search in Rotated Array: Given a sorted array of n integers that has been rotated an unknown

number of times, write code to find an element in the array. You may assume that the array was
originally sorted in increasing order.
EXAMPLE

Input: find5in{15,

16,

19,

20,

25,

1,

3,

4,

5,

7,

10,

14}

Output: 8 (the index of 5 in the array)
pg 150

SOLUTION

If this problem smells like binary search to you, you're right!

In classic binary search, we compare x with the midpoint to figure out if x belongs on the left or the right
side. The complication here is that the array is rotated and may have an inflection point. Consider, for
example, the following two arrays:
Array1:

{10,

15,

20,

©,

Array2:

{50,

5,

20,

30, 40}

5}

Note that both arrays have a midpoint of 20, but 5 appears on the left side of one and on the right side of

the other. Therefore, comparing x with the midpoint is insufficient.
However, if we look a bit deeper, we can see that one half of the array must be ordered normally (in
increasing order). We can therefore look at the normally ordered half to determine whether we should
search the left or right half.

For example, if we are searching for 5 in Array1, we can look at the left element (10) and middle element

(20). Since 10 < 20, the left half must be ordered normally. And, since 5 is not between those, we know that
we must search the right half.

398

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 10 | Sorting and Searching
in Array?2, we can see that since 50 > 20, the right half must be ordered normally. We turn to the middle

(20) and right (40) element to check if 5 would fall between them. The value 5 would not; therefore, we
search
the
left half.

The tricky condition is if the left and the middle are identical, as in the example array {2,

2,

2,

3,

4,

2 }. In this case, we can check if the rightmost element is different. If it is, we can search just the right side.

Otherwise, we have no choice but to search both halves.
%

int search(int a[],

int left, int right,

2

int mid = (left + right)

3

if (x == a[mid])

4

return mid;

5

6

{

{ // Found element

}

if (right < left) {

7

8

int x)

/ 2;

return

-1;

Ji

8)

18

/* Either the left or right half must be normally ordered.

ia

* is normally ordered,

12
13

* which side to search to find x.
if (a[left]

14

if

45

(x >= a[left]

{

//

&& x <

return search(a,

16

*/

Left is normally ordered.
a[mid])

left,

mid

{

-

1,

x);

// Search left

} else {

17

return search(a,

18
us

< a[mid])

Find out which side

and then use the normally ordered half to figure out

mid + 1,

right,

x);

// Search right

}
} else if (a[mid]

28

< a[left])

{ // Right is normally ordered.

if (x > a[mid] && x <= a[right])

oa

return search(a, mid + 1,

22

{

right, x);

// Search right

} else {

23

return Ssearch(a,

24

}

2s

} else

26

if

(afleft]

if (a[mid]

27

== a[mid])

!= a[right]))

return search(a,

28

left, mid - 1, x); // Search left

{

{

//

Left or right half is

// If right is

mid + 1,

right,

x);

different,

//

all repeats

search it

search right

} else { // Else, we have to search both halves

28

int result = search(a,

30

if (result == -1)

31

return search(a,

32

left,

mid -

1,

x);

mid + 1,

right,

x);

// Search left

{
// Search right

} else {

33

return result;

34

}

35

}

36

}

37

return

-1;

38}

This code will run in O(log

n) if all the elements are unique. However, with many duplicates, the algo-

rithm is actually O(n). This is because with many duplicates, we will often have to search both the left and
right sides of the array (or subarrays).

Note that while this problem is not conceptually very complex, it is actually very difficult to implement flawlessly. Don't feel bad if you had trouble implementing it without a few bugs. Because of the ease of making
off-by-one and other minor errors, you should make sure to test your code very thoroughly.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

399

Solutions to Chapter 10 | Sorting and Searching
10.4

Sorted Search, No Size: You are given an array-like data structure Listy which lacks a size

method. It does, however, have an elementAt(i) method that returns the element at index i in
O(1) time. If i is beyond the bounds of the data structure, it returns -1. (For this reason, the data
structure only supports positive integers.) Given a Listy which contains sorted, positive integers,

find the index at which an element x occurs. If x occurs multiple times, you may return any index.
pg 150

SOLUTION
Our first thought here should be binary search. The problem is that binary search requires us knowing the
length of the list, so that we can compare it to the midpoint. We don't have that here.
Could we compute the length? Yes!

We know that elementAt will return -1 when 1 is too large. We can therefore just try bigger and bigger
values until we exceed the size of the list.
But how much bigger? If we just went through the list linearly—1, then 2, then 3, then 4, and so on—we'd

wind up with a linear time algorithm. We probably want something faster than this. Otherwise, why would
the interviewer have specified the list is sorted?
It's better to back off exponentially. Try 1, then 2, then 4, then 8, then 16, and so on. This ensures that, if the

list has length n, we'll find the length in at mostO(log n) time.
[

Why O(log

n)? Imagine we start with pointer q atq

=

1. At each iteration, this pointer q

doubles, until q is bigger than the length n. How many times can q double in size before it’s

biggerthan n? Or, inother words, for what value of k does 2" = n? This expression is equal when

k = log n,as this is precisely what log means. Therefore, it will take O(log n) steps to find
the length.

Once we find the length, we just perform a (mostly) normal binary search. | say “mostly” because we need
to make one small tweak. If the mid point is -1, we need to treat this as a “too big’ value and search left. This
is on line 16 below.

There's one more little tweak. Recall that the way we figure out the length is by calling elementAt and
comparing it to -1. If, in the process, the element is bigger than the value x (the one were searching for),
we'll jump over to the binary search part early.
1

int search(Listy list,

2

int index = 1;

3

while

4

int value)

(list.elementAt(index)

{

!= -1 && list.elementAt(index)

index *= 2;

5

}

6

return binarySearch(list,

value,

index / 2,

index);

ton
8

9

int binarySearch(Listy list,

1i¢

int value,

int low,

int mid;

elt

12

while

(low <= high)

{

13

mid =

14

int middle = list.elementAt
(mid) ;

15

if (middle > value

16

ay

400

(low + high)

high = mid

-

/

2;

|| middle == -1) {

1;

} else if (middle < value)

{

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

int high)

{

< value)

{

Solutions to Chapter 10 | Sorting and Searching
48

low = mid + 1;

is

} else {

26

return mid;

21

}

22

}

23

24

return

-1;3

}

it turns out that not knowing the length didn't impact the runtime of the search algorithm. We find the

length inO( log n) time and then do the search inO(log n) time. Our overall runtime isO(log n), just
as it would be in a normal array.

10.5

Sparse Search: Given a sorted array of strings that is interspersed with empty strings, write a
method to find the location of a given string.
EXAMPLE
Input:

ball,

{“at”,

aes

ae

a

“ball”,

-

“car”,

“—,

eae

“dad”,

aig

ee

Output:
4
pg 150

SOLUTION
if it weren't for the empty strings, we could simply use binary search. We would compare the string to be

found, str, with the midpoint of the array, and go from there.
With empty strings interspersed, we can implement a simple modification of binary search. All we need to

do is fix the comparison against mid, in case mid is an empty string. We simply move mid to the closest
non-empty string.

The recursive code below to solve this problem can easily be modified to be iterative. We provide such an
implementation in the code attachment.
i

=int search(String[]
(first

> last)

strings,
return

String str,

2

if

3

/* Move mid to the middle *

4

int mid =

(last + first)

int first,

int last)

{

-1;
/

/
2;

5

6

/* If mid is

7

if (strings[mid].isEmpty())

empty,

8

int left = mid -

9

int

19

while (true) {

11
13

*

/

1;

(left

< first && right

return

-1;

mid =

4's)

non-empty string.

{

> last)

} else if (right <= last &&

14

{

!strings[right].isEmpty())

{

right;

break;

16

} else if (left >= first &&

av

!strings[left].isEmpty())

{

mid = left;

18

break;

19

}

29

right++;

21

left--;

22
23

closest

right = mid + 1;

if

12

find

}
}

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

401

Solutions to Chapter 10 | Sorting and Searching
24

25;

/* Check for string,

26

if (str.equals(strings[mid])) { // Found it!

27

return mid;

28

} else if

29

(strings[mid].compareTo(str)

return search(strings,

38

str,

< 8) { // Search right

mid + 1,

last);

} else { // Search left

31

return search(strings,

str, first, mid - 1);

}

bu
33

and recurse if necessary */

}

34

35

int search(String[]

37

return

38

String str) {

str == null ||

str == 99) {

-1;

}

39
49

strings,

if (strings == null | |

36

return search(strings,

str, 0,

strings.length - 1);

}

The worst-case runtime for this algorithm is O(n). In fact, it’s impossible to have an algorithm for this
problem that is better than O(n) in the worst case. After all, you could have an array of all empty strings
except for one non-empty string. There is no “smart” way to find this non-empty string. In the worst case,
you will need to look at every element in the array.

Careful consideration should be given to the situation when someone searches for the empty string. Should

we find the location (which is an O(n) operation)? Or should we handle this as an error?
There's no correct answer here. This is an issue you should raise with your interviewer. Simply asking this
question will demonstrate that you are a careful coder.

10.6

Sort Big File: Imagine you have a 20 GB file with one string per line. Explain how you would sort
the file.
pg 150

SOLUTION

When an interviewer gives a size limit of 20 gigabytes, it should tell you something. In this case, it suggests
that they don’t want you to bring all the data into memory.

So what do we do? We only bring part of the data into memory.
We'll divide the file into chunks, which are x megabytes each, where x is the amount of memory we have
available. Each chunk is sorted separately and then saved back to the file system.

Once all the chunks are sorted, we merge the chunks, one by one. At the end, we have a fully sorted file.
This algorithm is known as external sort.

402

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 10 | Sorting and Searching
10.7.

Missing Int: Given an input file with four billion non-negative integers, provide an algorithm to
generate an integer that is not contained in the file. Assume you have 1 GB of memory available for

this task.
FOLLOW UP
What if you have only 10 MB of memory? Assume that all the values are distinct and we now have

no more than one billion non-negative integers.
pg 150
SOLUTION
There are a total of 2”, or 4 billion, distinct integers possible and 2?' non-negative integers. Therefore, we
know the input file (assuming it is ints rather than longs) contains some duplicates.
We have 1 GB of memory, or 8 billion bits. Thus, with 8 billion bits, we can map all possible integers to a

distinct bit with the available memory.
The logic is as follows:
1.

Create a bit vector (BV) with 4 billion bits. Recall that a bit vector is an array that compactly stores

we

eS

boolean values by using an array of ints (or another data type). Each int represents 32 boolean values.
Initialize BV with all Os.
Scan all numbers (num) from the file and callBV.set(num,

1).

Now scan again BV from the Oth index.

Return the first index which has a value of 0.

The following code demonstrates our algorithm.
long numberOfInts

=

((long)

Integer.MAX_VALUE) + 1;

byte[] bitfield = new byte [(int)
String filename

(numberOfInts / 8)];

=i

void findOpenNumber() throws FileNotFoundException {
Scanner in = new Scanner(new FileReader (filename) ) ;

while (in.hasNextInt()) {
int n = in.nextInt
/*
*

();

Finds the corresponding number in the bitfield by using the OR operator to
set the nth bit of a byte

(e.g.,

* index 2 in the byte array).

bitfield

[n / 8]

J=1 <<

1@ would correspond to the 2nd bit of

*/

(n% 8);

}
for

(int i = 0;

i <

for (int j = 0;

bitfield.length;

i++)

{

j < 83 j++) {

/* Retrieves the individual bits of each byte. When @ bit is found,
* the corresponding value.

if ((bitfield[i] & (1 << j)) == @) {

18
20

System.out.printlin

él

return;

22
23

24

print

*/

}

}

(i * 8 + j);

}

25

CrackingTheCodingIinterview.com | 6th Edition

403

Solutions to Chapter 10 | Sorting and Searching
Follow Up: What if we have only

10 MB memory?

it's possible to find a missing integer with two passes of the data set. We can divide up the integers into
blocks of some size (we'll discuss how to decide on a size later). Let's just assume that we divide up the
integers into blocks of 1000. So, block 0 represents the numbers 0 through 999, block 1 represents numbers
1000 - 1999, and so on.

Since all the values are distinct, we know how many values we should find in each block. So, we search
through the file and count how many values are between 0 and 999, how many are between 1000 and
1999, and so on. If we count only 999 values in a particular range, then we know that a missing int must be
in that range.

In the second pass, we'll actually look for which number in that range is missing. We use the bit vector
approach from the first part of this problem. We can ignore any number outside of this specific range.
The question, now, is what is the appropriate block size? Let’s define some variables as follows:

-

Let rangeSize be the size of the ranges that each block in the first pass represents.

- Let arraySize represent the number of blocks in the first pass. Note that arraySize = ee
31

since there are 2?! non-negative integers.

We need to select a value for rangeSize such that the memory from the first pass (the array) and the
second pass (the bit vector) fit.

First Pass: The Array
The array in the first pass can fit in

10 megabytes, or roughly 277 bytes, of memory. Since each element in the

array is an int, and an int is 4 bytes, we can hold an array of at most about 27' elements. So, we can deduce
the following:
31

arraySize = et
rangeSize

.

Des

rangeSize= =

rangeSize > 2”

Second Pass: The Bit Vector
We need to have enough space to store rangeSize bits. Since we can fit 277 bytes in memory, we can fit

27° bits in memory. Therefore, we can conclude the following:
2" <=

rangeSize <= 276

These conditions give us a good amount of “wiggle room,’ but the nearer to the middle that we pick, the
less memory will be used at any given time.
The below code provides one implementation for this algorithm.
1

int findOpenNumber (String filename) throws

2

int rangeSize = (1 << 20);

// 2*%20 bits

FileNotFoundException {

(2°17 bytes)

3

4

/* Get count of number of values within each block.

5

int[] blocks = getCountPerBlock(filename, rangeSize);

*/

a

f

/*

8

int blockIndex = findBlockWithMissing(blocks,

8

if (blockIndex < ®)

404

Find a block with a missing value.

return -1;

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

*/

rangeSize)
;

Solutions to Chapter 10 | Sorting and Searching
ie

il

/* Create bit vector for items within this range.

*/

byte[] bitVector = getBitVectorForRange(filename, blockIndex, rangeSize);

12
13
14

/* Find

45

int offset = findZero(bitVector)
;

a

zero in the bit vector */

16

if (offset < 6) return -1;

17

18

/* Compute missing value.

1s

return blockIndex * rangeSize + offset;

*/

29
}
2i

22

/* Get count of items within each range.

23

int[]

24

getCountPerBlock(String filename,

throws

*/

int

rangeSize)

FileNotFoundException {

NS

int arraySize = Integer.MAX_VALUE /

26

int[]

rangeSize + 1;

blocks = new int[arraySize
|;

27

28

Scanner in = new Scanner

2s

while

36

(in.hasNextInt())

(new FileReader(filename));
{

int value = in.nextInt();

31

blocks[value / rangeSize ]++;

32

}

33

in.close();

34.

return blocks;

Nagel
36

37

/*

38

int findBlockWithMissing(int[]

39

Find a block whose count is
for

48

(int i = @;

if

44

i <

(blocks[i]

<

low.

*/

blocks,

blocks.length;

int rangeSize)

i++)

rangeSize)
{

return i;

42

}

43

}

44

return

-1;

45

}

4?

/* Create

48

byte[] getBitVectorForRange(String filename,

48

{

{

a

throws

bit vector for the values within a

specific

range.

int blockIndex,

*/

int rangeSize)

FileNotFoundException {

58

int startRange = blockIndex *

St

int endRange = startRange + rangeSize;

rangeSize;

52

byte[]

bitVector = new byte[rangeSize/Byte.SIZE];

53
54

Scanner in =

55

while

56

new Scanner(new FileReader(filename)
);

(in.hasNextInt())

{

int value = in.nextInt();

57

/* If the number is inside the block that's missing numbers,

58

if (startRange <= value && value < endRange)

5S

int offset = value

66

int mask

61
62

=

(1

<<

-

we record it */

{

startRange;

(offset % Byte.SIZE));

bitVector[offset / Byte.SIZE]

|= mask;

}

03
64.

}
in.close();

65

return bitVector;

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com| 6th Edition

405

Solutions to Chapter 10 | Sorting and Searching
66

}

67

68

/* Find bit index that

69

int findZero(byte b) {

738

is @ within byte.

for (int i = @; i < Byte.SIZE; i++) {

7i

int mask = 1 << i;

72

if ((b & mask)

ie

return i;

74

== @)

{

}

75

}

76

77

*/

return -1;

+}

78

72

/* Find a zero within the bit vector and return the index.

8@

int findZero(byte[] bitVector) {

81

for (int i = 0;

82

83

!=~0) { //

i++) {

If not all 1s

int bitIndex = findZero(bitVector[i]);

84

return i * Byte.SIZE + bitIndex;

85

}

86

}

87

return -1;

88

i < bitVector.length;

if (bitVector[i]

*/

}

What if, as a follow up question, you are asked to solve the problem with even less memory? In this case, we

can do repeated passes using the approach from the first step. We'd first check to see how many integers
are found within each sequence of a million elements. Then, in the second pass, we'd check how many integers are found in each sequence of a thousand elements. Finally, in the third pass, we’d apply the bit vector.

10.8

Find Duplicates: You have an array with all the numbers from 1 to N, where N is at most 32,000. The
array may have duplicate entries and you do not know what N is. With only 4 kilobytes of memory
available, how would you print all duplicate elements in the array?
pg 151

SOLUTION
We have 4 kilobytes of memory which means we can addressupto8 * 4 * 2?*bits. Note that 32 * 27°

bits is greater than 32000.
We can create a bit vector with 32000 bits, where each bit represents one integer.
Using this bit vector, we can then iterate through the array, flagging each element v by setting bit v to 1.
When we come across a duplicate element, we print it.
1

void checkDuplicates(int[]

array)

2

BitSet bs = new BitSet(32000)
;

3

for (int i = @;

i < array.length;

4

int num = array[i];

§

int num@ = num -

1;

6

if (bs.get(num@))

{

ai

{

} else {

9

bs .set (num);

18
di

12

}

}

13

14

class

406

BitSet

{

// bitset starts at @,

System.out.printin(num)
;

8

i++)

{

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

numbers

start

at 1

Solutions to Chapter 10 | Sorting and Searching
int[] bitset;

45
16

ah
18

public BitSet(int size) {
bitset = new int[(size >> 5) + 1]; // divide by 32

19

:

2e

21

boolean get(int pos) {

pe

int wordNumber =

(pos >> 5);

23

int bitNumber =

(pos & @x1F);

// divide by 32

24.

return (bitset[wordNumber] & (1 << bitNumber))

// mod 32

!= @;

25}
26

27

void set(int pos)

{

28

int wordNumber =

29

int bitNumber = (pos & @x1F); // mod 32

38

bitset[wordNumber]

>>

5);

//

divide

by 32

|= 1 << bitNumber;

}

31
32

(pos

}

Note that while this isn’t an especially difficult problem, it’s important to implement this cleanly. This is why
we defined our own bit vector class to hold a large bit vector. If our interviewer lets us (she may or may not),

we could have of course used Java’s built in BitSet class.

10.9

Sorted Matrix Search: Given anM

xX

N matrix in which each row and each column is sorted in

ascending order, write a method to find an element.
pg 151
SOLUTION

We can approach this in two ways: a more naive solution that only takes advantage of part of the sorting,
and a more optimal way that takes advantage of both parts of the sorting.

Solution #1: Naive Solution

As a first approach, we can do binary search on every row to find the element. This algorithm will be O(M

log(N) ), since there are M rows and it takes O( Log(N) ) time to search each one. This is a good approach
to mention to your interviewer before you proceed with generating a better algorithm.
To develop an algorithm, let’s start with a simple example.
15

| 20 | 40 | 85

26 | 35

| 88 | 95

30 | 55

| 95 | 105

48 | 80 | 100 | 120

Suppose we are searching for the element 55. How can we identify where it is?
If we look at the start of a row or the start ofa column, we can start to deduce the location. if the start of a
column is greater than 55, we know that 55 can't be in that column, since the start of the column is always

the minimum element. Additionally, we know that 55 can’t be in any columns on the right, since the first

element of each column must increase in size from left to right. Therefore, if the start of the column is
greater than the element x that we are searching for, we know that we need to move further to the left.
For rows, we use identical logic. If the start ofa row is bigger than x, we know we need to move upwards.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

407

Solutions to Chapter 10 | Sorting and Searching
Observe that we can also make a similar conclusion by looking at the ends of columns or rows. If the end
of a column or row is less than x, then we know that we must move down (for rows) or to the right (for

columns) to find x. This is because the end is always the maximum element.

We can bring these observations together into a solution.
The observations are the following:
-

(fthe start of a column is greater than x, then x is to the left of the column.

-

Ifthe end of a column is less than x, then x is to the right of the column.

-

Ifthe start of a row is greater than x, then x is above that row.

-

Ifthe end of a row is less than x, then x is below that row.

We can begin in any number of places, but let’s begin with looking at the starts of columns.
We need to start with the greatest column and work our way to the left. This means that our first element

for comparison is

array[@][c-1 ], where c is the number of columns. By comparing the start of columns

to x (which is 55), we'll find that x must be in columns 0, 1, or 2. We will have stopped at array[@][2].
This element may not be the end of a row in the full matrix, but it is an end of a row of a submatrix. The
same conditions apply. The value at array[@
]|[ 2], which is 40, is less than 55, so we know we can move
downwards.

We now have a submatrix to consider that looks like the following (the gray squares have been eliminated).

We can repeatedly apply these conditions to search for 55. Note that the only conditions we actually use
are conditions 1 and 4.
The code below implements this elimination algorithm.
i

boolean findElement(int[][]

2

matrix,

int elem)

{

int row = @;

3

int col = matrix[@].length

4

while

5

if (matrix[row][col]

&

- 1;

(row < matrix.length && col >= @)
== elem)

{

{

return true;

?

} else if (matrix[row][col]

8

col--;

8

} else {

18

{

row++
;

11

}

ae

}

13

return false;

14

> elem)

}

Alternatively, we can apply a solution that more directly looks like binary search. The code is considerably

more complicated, but it applies many of the same learnings.

Solution #2: Binary Search
Let's again look at a simple example.

408

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 10 | Sorting and Searching

15

| 20 } 780;

85

2@ \ 35

| 80 | 95

3@

| 95

|) 55

| 105

40 | 80 | 100 | 120

We want to be able to leverage the sorting property to more efficiently find an element. So, we might ask

ourselves, what does the unique ordering property of this matrix imply about where an element might be
located?
We are told that every row and column is sorted. This means that element a[i][
the elements in row i between columns 0 andj
i-

-

J] will be greater than

1andthe elements in column j between rows 0 and

1.

Or, in other words:

afiJ[@] <= a[i][1] <= ... <= afi}[j-1] <= afi](i]
al@}[J] <= a[1][3] <= ... <= afi-1)[3] <= ali}(3]
Looking at this visually, the dark gray element below is bigger than all the light gray elements.

The light gray elements also have an ordering to them: each is bigger than the elements to the left of it,
as well as the elements above it. So, by transitivity, the dark gray element is bigger than the entire square.

This means that for any rectangle we draw in the matrix, the bottom right hand corner will always be the
biggest.
Likewise, the top left hand corner will always be the smallest. The colors below indicate what we know

about the ordering of elements (light gray < dark gray < black):

RE

120

120

Let's return to the original problem: suppose we were searching for the value 85. if we look along the diag-

onal, well find the elements 35 and 95. What does this tell us about the location of 85?

70 | 85

48 | 80

SO

195

Q

g

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

409

Solutions to Chapter 10 | Sorting and Searching
85 can't be in the black area, since 95 is in the upper left hand corner and is therefore the smallest element
in that square.

85 can't be in the light gray area either, since 35 is in the lower right hand corner of that square.
85 must be in one of the two white areas.

So, we partition our grid into four quadrants and recursively search the lower left quadrant and the upper
right quadrant. These, too, will get divided into quadrants and searched.
Observe that since the diagonal is sorted, we can efficiently search it using binary search.
The code below implements
this algorithm.
Won
nm
PW
ke

Coordinate findElement(int[{][] matrix, Coordinate origin, Coordinate dest,

if (!origin.inbounds(matrix)

||

!dest.inbounds(matrix))

int x){

{

return null;

}

if (matrix[origin.row][origin.column]

== x)

{

return origin;

} else if (!origin.isBefore(dest))

{

return null;

}
/* Set start to start of diagonal and end to the end of the diagonal. Since the
* grid may not be square, the end of the diagonal may not equal dest.

*/

Coordinate start = (Coordinate) origin.clone();
int diagDist = Math.min(dest.row

- origin.row,

dest.column

Coordinate end = new Coordinate(start.row + diagDist,
Coordinate p = new Coordinate(@,

@);

/* Do binary search on the diagonal,

while

(start.isBefore(end))

p.setToAverage(start,

looking for the first element

> x */

{

end);

if (x > matrix[p.row][p.column])
start.row =

- origin.column);

start.column + diagDist);

{

p.row + 1;

start.column = p.column + 1;

} else {
end.row = p.row -

1;

end.column = p.column -

}

1;

}

3e

/* Split the grid into quadrants.

31

return partitionAndSearch(matrix, origin,

32

Search the bottom left and the top right.

dest,

*/

start, x);

}

33

34

Coordinate partitionAndSearch(int[][] matrix, CoOrdinate origin, Coordinate dest,

35

Coordinate pivot, int x) {

36

Coordinate lowerLeftOrigin = new Coordinate(pivot.row, origin.column)
;

ov

Coordinate lowerLeftDest = new Coordinate(dest.row, pivot.column - 1);

38

Coordinate upperRightOrigin = new Coordinate(origin.row,

39

Coordinate upperRightDest = new Coordinate(pivot.row - 1, dest.column);

pivot.column)
;

49

41

Coordinate lowerLeft = findElement(matrix, lowerLeftOrigin, lowerLeftDest, x);

AZ

if

43
aa

410

(1owerLeft == null)

{

return findElement(matrix, upperRightOrigin, upperRightDest, x);
}

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 10 | Sorting and Searching
AS

46

return

lowerLeft;

}

47

48

Coordinate findElement(int[][] matrix,

int x)

{

4g

Coordinate origin = new Coordinate(@,

5@

Coordinate dest = new Coordinate(matrix.length - 1,

51

return findElement(matrix,

origin,

©);

dest,

matrix[@].length -

1);

x);

See
53

54

public class Coordinate implements Cloneable {

55

public

56

public Coordinate(int r,

5?

int

row =

row,

column;

int c)

{

P3

column = c;

58
59

}

6e

61

public boolean inbounds(int[][]

62

return

row >= 0 && column

63

matrix)

{

>= 0 &&

row < matrix.length && column < matrix[@].length;

}

64
65

#6

public boolean isBefore(Coordinate p)

67

return

row <=

{

p.row && column <= p.column;

}

68
6S

78

public Object

Va.

clone()

{

return new Coordinate(row,

72

column);

}

73

74

public void setToAverage(Coordinate min,

75

row = (min.row + max.row)

76

column =

77

78

Coordinate max)

{

/ 2;

(min.column + max.column)

/ 2;

}

}

if you read all this code and thought, “there's no way | could do all this in an interview!” you're probably
right. You couldn't. But, your performance on any problem is evaluated compared to other candidates on
the same problem. So while you couldn't implement ail this, neither could they. You are at no disadvantage
when you get a tricky problem like this.
You help yourself out a bit by separating code out into other methods. For example, by pulling

partitionAndSearch out into its own method, you will have an easier time outlining key aspects of the
code. You can then come back to fill in the body for partitionAndSearch if you have time.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

411

Solutions to Chapter 10 | Sorting and Searching
10.10 Rank from Stream: imagine you are reading in a stream of integers. Periodically, you wish

to be able to look up the rank of a number x (the number of values less than or equal to x).
Implement the data structures and algorithms to support these operations. That is, implement

the method track(int x), which is called when each number is generated, and the method
getRankOfNumber(int x), which returns the number of values less than or equal to x (not
including x itself).
EXAMPLE

Stream (in order of appearance):5,

getRankOfNumber(1)

= 0

getRankOfNumber(3)

= 1

getRankOfNumber(4)

= 3

1,

4,

4,

5,

9,

7,

13,

3

pg 151

SOLUTION
A relatively easy way to implement this would be to have an array that holds all the elements in sorted
order. When a new element comes in, we would need to shift the other elements to make room. Imple-

menting getRankOfNumber would be quite efficient, though. We would simply perform a binary search
for n, and return the index.

However, this is very inefficient for inserting elements (that is, the track(int

x) function). We need a

data structure which is good at keeping relative ordering, as well as updating when we insert new elements.
A binary search tree can dojust that.

Instead of inserting elements into an array, we insert elements into a binary search tree. The method

track(int

x) willrunin O(log

n) time, where n is the size of the tree (provided, of course, that the

tree is balanced).
To find the rank ofa number, we could do an in-order traversal, keeping a counter as we traverse.
The goal

is that, by the time we find x, counter will equal the number of elements less than x.
As long as we're moving left during searching for x, the counter wont change. Why? Because all the values
we're skipping on the right side are greater than x. After all, the very smallest element (with rank of 1) is the
leftmost node.
When we move to the right though, we skip over a bunch of elements on the left. All of these elements are

less than x, so we'll need to increment counter by the number of elements in the left subtree.
Rather than counting the size of the left subtree (which would be inefficient), we can track this information
as we add new elements to the tree.
Let’s walk through an example on the following tree. in the below example, the value in parentheses indicates the number of nodes in the left subtree (or, in other words, the rank of the node relative to its subtree).

412

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 10 | Sorting and Searching

Suppose we want to find the rank of 24 in the tree above. We would compare 24 with the root, 20, and find
that 24 must reside on the right. The root has 4 nodes in its left subtree, and when we include the root itself,
this gives us five total nodes smaller than 24. We set counter to 5.

Then, we compare 24 with node 25 and find that 24 must be on the left. The value of counter does not
update, since we're not “passing over” any smaller nodes. The value of counter is still 5.

Next, we compare 24 with node 23, and find that 24 must be on the right. Counter gets incremented by
just 1 (to 6), since 23 has no left nodes.
Finally, we find 24 and we return counter: 6.

Recursively, the algorithm is the following:
1

int getRank(Node node,

{

if x is

3

if x is on left of node,

return getRank(node.left,

4

if x is on right of node,

return node.leftSize()

5

node.data,

int x)

2

return node. leftSize()

x)

+ 1 + getRank(node.right, x)

}

The full code for this is below.
%

RankNode

root

= null;

2

3.

void track(int number) {

4

if

5

(root ==

null)

{

root = new RankNode(number)
;

6

} else {

7

root.insert(number
) ;

8
2

}

16

11

int getRankOfNumber(int number)

12

return root.getRank (number) ;

13

{

}

14
15

16

public class RankNode {

17

public int left_size = @;

18

public RankNode left,

19

public int data = @;

28

public RankNode(int d)

21
22

right;

{

data = d;
}

23

24

25

public void insert(int d)

{

if (d <= data) {

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

413

Solutions to Chapter 10 | Sorting and Searching
26

if (left

27

else left = new RankNode(d);

!= null) left.insert(d);

left_sizet+;

28
29

} else {

EY)

if (right != null) right.insert(d);

31

else right = new RankNode(d);

32

}

33

}

34

eis

public int getRank(int d) {

36

if (d == data)

{

37

return left_size;

38

} else if (d < data) {

39

if (left

49

else return left.getRank(d);

At

== null) return -1;

} else {

42

int right_rank = right == null ? -1 :

43

if (right_rank == -1)

44

else return left_size + 1 + right_rank;

45

}

46

47

right.getRank(d);

return -1;

}

}

The track method and the getRankOfNumber method will both operate inO(log N) ona balanced
tree and O(N) onan unbalanced tree.
Note how we've handled the case in which d is not found in the tree. We check for the -1 return value, and,
when we find it, return -1 up the tree. It is important that you handle cases like this.

10.11

Peaks and Valleys: In an array of integers, a “peak” is an element which is greater than or equal
to the adjacent integers and a “valley” is an element which is less than or equal to the adjacent
integers. For example, in the array {5, 8, 6, 2, 3, 4, 6}, {8, 6} are peaks and {5, 2} are valleys. Given an

array of integers, sort the array into an alternating sequence of peaks and valleys.
EXAMPLE

Input: {5, 3, 1, 2, 3}
Output: {5, 1, 3, 2, 3}
pg 157

SOLUTION

Since this problem asks us to sort the array in a particular way, one thing we can try is doing a normal sort

and then “fixing” the array into an alternating sequence of peaks and valleys.
Suboptimal Solution

Imagine we were given an unsorted array and then sort it to become the following:
13)

1

4

7

8

9

We now have an ascending list of integers.

How can we rearrange this into a proper alternating sequence of peaks and valleys? Let’s walk through it
and try to do that.
«

The @ is okay.

414

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 10 | Sorting and Searching
*

The 1 is in the wrong place. We can swap it with either the @ or 4. Let's swap it with the 0.
1

2)

4

7

8

9)

*

The 4 is okay.

«

The 7 is in the wrong place. We can swap it with either the 4 or the 8. Let's swap it with the 4.

-

The 9is in the wrong place. Let’s swap it with the 8.

@7

1

1

0

7

9

86

4

4

9

8

Observe that there's nothing special about the array having these values. The relative order of the elements
matters, but all sorted arrays will have the same relative order. Therefore, we can take this same approach
on any sorted array.

Before coding, we should clarify the exact algorithm, though.
1. Sort the array in ascending order.
2. Iterate through the elements, starting from index 1 (not 0) and jumping two elements at a time.
3. At each element, swap it with the previous element. Since every three elements appear in the order

small <= medium <= large, swapping these elements will always put medium as a peak: medium
<=

small <=

large.

This approach will ensure that the peaks are in the right place: indexes 1, 3, 5, and so on. As long as the oddnumbered elements (the peaks) are bigger than the adjacent elements, then the even-numbered elements

{the valleys) must be smaller than the adjacent elements.

void

sortValleyPeak(int[]

for

OO

}

i = 1;

{

i < array.length;
i

-

1,

i += 2)

{

int right)

{

i);

t

void swap(int[] array, int left,

MO

Ow

(int

swap(array,

int temp = array[left];

10

array(left]

11

array[right]

12

array)

Arrays.sort(array)
;

P

ls hI pt

The code to implement this is below.

= array[right];
= temp;

}

This algorithm runs inO(n log n) time.
Optimal Solution

To optimize past the prior solution, we need to cut out the sorting step. The algorithm must operate on an
unsorted array.
Let's revisit an example.
9

1

0@

4

8

7

For each element, we'll look at the adjacent elements. Let's imagine some sequences. We'll just use the
numbers 0, 1 and 2. The specific values don't matter.
®

1

@

2

1

1

@

2

1

2

@

2

1

2)

2

//

peak

//

peak

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

415

Solutions to Chapter 10 | Sorting and Searching
2

0

1

If the center element needs to be a peak, then two of those sequences work. Can we fix the other ones to
make the center element a peak?
Yes. We can fix this sequence by swapping the center element with the largest adjacent element.
@

1

2

@

2

1

-

80

2

1

// peak

i102

-

1

2

0

// peak

1

2

8

2

i Wt

1

->

2

Q

1

->

1

#2

@

9

2

1

As we noted before, if we make sure the peaks are in the right place then we know the valleys are in the
right place.

We should be a little cautious here. Is it possible that one of these swaps could “break”
an earlier

part of the sequence that we'd already processed?
This is a good thing to worry about, but it’s

not an issue here. if we’re swapping middle with left, then left is currently a valley.Middle
is smaller than Left, so we're putting an even smaller element as a valley. Nothing will break.

All is good!

The code to implement this is below.
eR

void sortValleyPeak(int[]

fo wi min Bb WN

for (int i = 1;

i <

array)

{

array.length;

i += 2)

int biggestIindex = maxIndex(array,
if (i

!= biggestIndex)

swap(array,

}

i,

i -

{
1,

i,

i+ 1);

{

biggestIndex)
;

}

oO

ii

16

int maxIndex(int[]

array,

int a,

int b,

int c)

{

11

int len = array.length;

12

int aValue = a

>= @ & a < len

°? array[a]

:

Integer
.MIN_ VALUE;

13

int bValue = b >=8 && b < len

° array[b]

:

Integer.MIN_VALUE;

14

int cValue = c >=8@ && c < len

° array[c]

:

Integer.MIN_VALUE;

15

16

int max = Math.max(aValue,

17

if (aValue == max) return a;

18

else if (bValue == max) return b;

19
20

else

return

Math.max(bValue,

c;

}

This algorithm takes O(n) time.

416

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

cValue));

11
Solutions to Testing

11.1

Mistake: Find the mistake(s) in the following code:
unsigned
for

int i;

(i = 100;

i

>= @;

printf (“%d\n”,

--i)

1);
pg 157

SOLUTION

There are two mistakes in this code.

First, note thatanunsigned int is, by definition, always greater than or equal to zero, The for loop condition will therefore always be true, and it will loop infinitely.
The correct code to print all numbers from

100 to 1,isi > @.If we truly wanted to print zero, we could add

an additional printf statement after the for loop.
1

unsigned int i;

2—

FOR (aye e LORse

3

Lnr C5572)

printf (“%d\n”,

i);

One additional correction is to use 4u in place of 4d, as we are printing unsigned
i

unsigned int i;

2

for

3

(i = 100;

i > @;

printf (“%u\n”,

int.

--i)

1);

This code will now correctly print the list of ail numbers from 100 to 1, in descending order.

11.2.

Random Crashes: You are given the source to an application which crashes when it is run. After

running it ten times in a debugger, you find it never crashes in the same place. The application is
single threaded, and uses only the C standard library. What programming errors could be causing

this crash? How would you test each one?
pg 157
SOLUTION

The question largely depends on the type of application being diagnosed. However, we can give some
general causes of random crashes.

7.

“Random Variable:”
The application may use some random number or variable component that may not
be fixed for every execution of the program. Examples include user input, a random number generated
by the program, or the time of day.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

417

Solutions to Chapter 11 | Testing
2.

Uninitialized Variable: The application could have an uninitialized variable which, in some languages,

may cause it to take on an arbitrary value. The values of this variable could result in the code taking a
slightly different path each time.
3. Memory Leak: The program may have run out of memory. Other culprits are totally random for each run

since it depends on the number of processes running at that particular time. This also includes heap
overflow or corruption of data on the stack.

4. External Dependencies: The program may depend on another application, machine, or resource. If there
are multiple dependencies, the program could crash at any point.
To track down the issue, we should start with learning as much as possible about the application. Who is

running it? What are they doing with it? What kind of application is it?
Additionally, although the application doesn’t crash in exactly the same place, it’s possible that it is linked

to specific components or scenarios. For example, it could be that the application never crashes if it’s simply
launched and left untouched, and that crashes only appear at some point after loading a file. Or, it may be
that all the crashes take place within the lower level components, such as file I/O.

It may be useful to approach this by elimination. Close down all other applications on the system. Track
resource use very carefully. if there are parts of the program we can disable, do so. Run it on a different
machine and see if we experience the same issue. The more we can eliminate (or change), the easier we can
track down the issue.
Additionally, we may be able to use tools to check for specific situations. For example, to investigate issue
#2, we can utilize runtime tools which check for uninitialized variables,
These problems are as much about your brainstorming ability as they are about your approach. Do you
jump all over the place, shouting out random suggestions? Or do you approach it in a logical, structured

manner? Hopefully, it’s the latter.

11.3.

Chess Test: We have the following method used in a chess game: boolean canMoveTo(int

x,

int y).This method is part of the Piece class and returns whether or not the piece can move to
position(x, y).Explain how you would test this method.
pg 157

SOLUTION

In this problem, there are two primary types of testing: extreme case validation (ensuring that the program
doesn‘ crash on bad input), and general case testing. We'll start with the first type.
Testing Type #1: Extreme Case Validation

We need to ensure that the program handles bad or unusual input gracefully. This means checking the
following conditions:

*

Test with negative numbers for x and y

*

Test with x larger than the width

-

Test with y larger than the height

-

Test witha completely full board

*

Test with an empty or nearly empty board

+

Test with far more white pieces than black

418

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 11 | Testing
*

Test with far more black pieces than white

For the error cases above, we should ask our interviewer whether we want to return false or throw an excep-

tion, and we should test accordingly.
Testing Type #2: General Testing:

General testing is much more expansive. Ideally, we would test every possible board, but there are far too
many boards. We can, however, perform a reasonable coverage of different boards.
There are 6 pieces in chess, so we can test each piece against every other piece, in every possible direction.

This would look something like the below code:
Avi
Bw hN eS

foreach piece a:

for each other type of piece b (6 types + empty space)
foreach direction d

Create a board with piece a.
Place piece b in direction d.
Try to move - check return value.

The key to this problem is recognizing that we can't test every possible scenario, even if we would like to.

So, instead, we must focus on the essential areas.

11.4

NoTest Tools: How would you load test a webpage without using any test tools?
pg 157

SOLUTION

Load testing helps to identify a web application’s maximum operating capacity, as well as any bottlenecks
that may interfere with its performance. Similarly, it can check how an application responds to variations
in load.

To perform load testing, we must first identify the performance critical scenarios and the metrics which

fulfill our performance objectives, Typical criteria include:
-

Response time

*

Throughput

-

Resource utilization

-

Maximum load that the system can bear.

Then, we design tests to simulate the load, taking care to measure each of these criteria.

In the absence of formal testing tools, we can basically create our own. For example, we could simulate
concurrent users by creating thousands of virtual users. We would write a multi-threaded program with
thousands ofthreads, where each thread acts as a real-world user loading the page. For each user, we would
programmatically measure response time, data I/O, etc.

We would then analyze the results based on the data gathered during the tests and compare it with the
accepted values.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

419

Solutions to Chapter 11 | Testing
11.5

Testa Pen: How would you test a pen?
pg 157

SOLUTION

This problem is largely about understanding the constraints and approaching the problem in a structured
manner.

To understand the constraints, you should ask a lot of questions to understand the “who, what, where,
when, how and why’ of a problem (or as many of those as apply to the problem). Remember that a good

tester understands exactly what he is testing before starting the work.
To illustrate the technique in this problem, let us guide you through a mock conversation.
*

Interviewer: How would you test a pen?

-

Candidate: Let me find out a bit about the pen. Who is going to use the pen?

-

Interviewer: Probably children.

-

Candidate: Okay, that’s interesting. What will they be doing with it? Will they be writing, drawing, or
doing something else with it?

-

Interviewer: Drawing.

+

Candidate: Okay, great. On what? Paper? Clothing? Walls?

-

Interviewer: On clothing.

-

Candidate: Great. What kind oftip does the pen have? Felt? Ballpoint? Is it intended to wash off, or is it
intended to be permanent?

+

Interviewer: It's intended to wash off.

Many questions later, you may get to this:
Candidate: Okay, so as | understand it, we have a pen that is being targeted at 5 to 10-year-olds. The pen

has a felt tip and comes in red, green, blue and black. It’s intended to wash off when clothing is washed.
Is that correct?

The candidate now has a problem that is significantly different from what it initially seemed to be. This is
not uncommon. In fact, many interviewers intentionally give a problem that seems clear (everyone knows
what a pen is!), only to let you discover that it’s quite a different problem from what it seemed. Their belief
is that users do the same thing, though users do so accidentally.

Now that you understand what you're testing, it’s time to come up with a plan of attack. The key here is
structure.

Consider what the different components of the object or problem, and go from there. In this case, the
components might be:

*

Fact check: Verify that the pen is felt tip and that the ink is one of the allowed colors.

*

Intended use: Drawing. Does the pen write properly on clothing?

*

Intended use: Washing. Does it wash off of clothing (even if it’s been there for an extended period of

time)? Does it wash off in hot, warm and cold water?
-

Safety: Is the pen safe (non-toxic) for children?

+

Unintended uses: How else might children use the pen? They might write on other surfaces, so you need
to check whether the behavior there is correct. They might also stomp on the pen, throw it, and so on.

420

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 11 | Testing
You'll need to make sure that the pen holds up under these conditions.

Remember that in any testing question, you need to test both the intended and unintended scenarios.

People don’t always use the product the way you want them to.

11.6

Test an ATM: How would you test an ATM ina

distributed banking system?
pg 157

SOLUTION
The first thing to do on this question is to clarify assumptions. Ask the following questions:
«

Who is going to use the ATM? Answers might be “anyone,’
or it might be “blind people,’ or any number
of other answers.
What are they going to use it for? Answers might be “withdrawing money,’

it,

“transferring money,’

“checking their balance,’ or many other answers.
«

What tools do we have to test? Do we have access to the code, orjust to the ATM?

Remember: a good tester makes sure she knows what she’s testing!
Once we understand what the system looks like, we'll want to break down the problem into different testable components. These components include:
*

Logging in

+

Withdrawing money

*

Depositing money

«

Checking balance

-

Transferring money

We would probably want to use a mix of manual and automated testing.

Manual testing would involve going through the steps above, making sure to check for all the error cases
(low balance, new account, nonexistent account, and so on).

Automated testing is a bit more complex. We'll want to automate all the standard scenarios, as shown
above, and we also want to look for some very specific issues, such as race conditions. {deally, we would be
able to set up a closed system with fake accounts and ensure that, even if someone withdraws and deposits
money rapidly from different locations, he never gets money or loses money that he shouldn't.

Above all, we need to prioritize security and reliability. People’s accounts must always be protected, and we
must make sure that money is always properly accounted for. No one wants to unexpectedly lose money! A
good tester understands the system priorities.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

421

12
Solutions to C and C++

12.1.

Last K Lines: Write a method to print the last K lines of an input file using C++.
pg 163

SOLUTION

One brute force way could be to count the number of lines (N) and then print from N-K to Nth line. But this
requires two reads of the file, which is unnecessarily costly. We need a solution which allows us to read just
once and be able to print the last K lines.

We can allocate an array for all K lines and the last K lines we've read in the array. , and so on. Each time that
we read a new line, we purge the oldest line from the array.
But—you might ask—wouldn't this require shifting elements in the array, which is also very expensive? No,
not if we do it correctly. Instead of shifting the array each time, we will use a circular array.

With a circular array, we always replace the oldest item when we read a newline. The oldest item is tracked
in a separate variable, which adjusts as we add new items.

array = {a,

b, Cc,

(insert g):

array = {g,

b, Cc,

step 3

(insert

h):

array = {g,

step 4 (insert i):

array = {g,

h, c,
h, i,

e,

icin

e,

eh

e;

f}.
Fie

WN
E ©

(initially):

step 2

uu UU
UD

step 1

qaqa
ga Oo

The following is an example of a circular array:

The code below implements this algorithm.
1

=void

2

printLast1@Lines(char*

const

fileName)

{

int K = 180;

3

ifstream file

é,

string L[K];

BS

int size = 0;

(fileName)
;

&

?

/* read file line by line into circular array */

8

/*

s

while

peek()

so an EOF following a line ending is

(file.peek()

16

getline(file,

11

S1ize++;

12

not considered a separate line */

!= EOF) {

L[size % K]);

}

23

14

/* compute start of circular array,

and the

15

int start = size > K ?

8;

16

int count = min(K, size);

(size %K)

i7

422

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

:

size of it */

Solutions to Chapter 12 | C and C++
is

/* print elements in the order they were read */

9

for (int i = 0; i < count; i++) {

22

cout

22

<<

L{(start

+ 1) 4% K]

<<

endl;

}

21
4

This solution will require reading in the whole file, but only ten lines will be in memory at any given point.
12.2

Reverse String: Implement a function void reverse(charTM str) in C or C++ which reverses a null-

terminated string.
pg 163
SOLUTION

This is a classic interview question. The only “gotcha’ is to try to do it in place, and to be careful for the nul1
character.

We will implement this in C.
1

void

reverse(char *str) {

2

char* end = str;

3

char tmp;

4

if (str)

5

{

while (*end) { /* find end of the string */

5

++end;

7

}

%

--end;

/*

set one char back,

since last char is

null */

§

18

/*

11

*

swap characters from start of string with the end of the string,
pointers

meet

in middle.

ie

while (str < end)

13

tmp = *str;

14

*str++ = *end;

a5

*end--

is

{

= tmp;

}

i?
ig

until the

*/

}
}

This is just one of many ways to implement this solution. We could even implement this code recursively

(but we wouldn't recommend it).

12.3.

Hash Table vs STL Map: Compare and contrast a hash table and an STL map. How is a hash table
implemented? If the number of inputs is small, which data structure options can be used instead of
a hash table?
pg 163

SOLUTION

In a hash table, a value is stored by calling a hash function on a key. Values are not stored in sorted order.
Additionally, since hash tables use the key to find the index that will store the value, an insert or lookup

can be done in amortized 0(1

) time (assuming few collisions in the hash table). In a hash table, one must

also handle potential collisions. This is often done by chaining, which means to create a linked list of all the
values whose keys map to a particular index.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

423

Solutions to Chapter 12 | C and C++
An STL map inserts the key/value pairs into a binary search tree based on the keys. There is no need to

handle collisions, and, since the tree is balanced,
the insert and lookup time is guaranteed to be

O(1og N).

How is a hash table implemented?

A hash table is traditionally implemented with an array of linked lists.

When we want to insert a key/value

pair, we map the key to an index in the array using a hash function.
The value is then inserted into the linked

list at that position.
Note that the elements in a linked list at a particular index of the array do not have the same key. Rather,

hashFunction(key) is the same for these values. Therefore, in order to retrieve the value for a specific
key, we need to store in each node both the exact key and the value.
To summarize, the hash table will be implemented with an array of linked lists, where each node in the
linked list holds two pieces of data: the value and the original key. In addition, we will want to note the

following design criteria:
1. We want to use a good hash function to ensure that the keys are well distributed. If they are not well

distributed, then we would get a lot of collisions and the speed to find an element would decline.
2.

No matter how good our hash function is, we will still have collisions, so we need a method for handling
them. This often means chaining via a linked list, but it's not the only way.

3. We may also wish to implement methods to dynamically increase or decrease the hash table size
depending on capacity. For example, when the ratio of the number of elements to the table size exceeds
a certain threshold, we may wish to increase the hash table size. This would mean creating a new hash
table and transferring the entries from the old table to the new table. Because this is an expensive operation, we want to be careful to not do it too often.

What can be used instead of a hash table, if the number of inputs is small?

You can use an STL map ora

binary tree. Although this takes O( log(n) ) time, the number of inputs may

be small enough to make this time negligible.

12.4

Virtual Functions: How do virtual functions work in C++?
pg 164

SOLUTION

A virtual function depends on a
“vtable’
or
“Virtual Table.’ If any function of a class is declared to be virtual,

a vtable is constructed which stores addresses of the virtual functions of this class. The compiler also adds
ahiddenvptr variable in all such classes which points to the vtable of that class. if a virtual function is not
overridden in the derived class, the vtable of the derived class stores the address of the function in its parent
class. The vtable is used to resolve the address of the function when the virtual function is called. Dynamic
binding in C++ is performed through the vtable mechanism.
Thus, when we assign the derived class object to the base class pointer, the vptr variable points to the

vtable of the derived class. This assignment ensures that the most derived virtual function gets called.

Consider the following code.
1

class Shape {

2

public:

3

int edge length;

4

virtual int circumference () {

424

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 12 | Cand C++
5

cout << “Circumference of Base Class\n”;

6

return @;

7
}
8};
9

1@

class

Triangle:

public Shape {

11

public:

12

int circumference

13

()

{

cout<< “Circumference of Triangle Class\n”;

14

return 3 * edge length:

15

}

35

16
17

18

void main()

15

{

Shape * x = new Shape();

28

x->circumference();

21

Shape *y = new Triangle();

22

// “Circumference of Base Class”

y->circumference(); // “Circumference of Triangle Class”

23

}

In the previous example, circumference is a virtual function in the Shape class, so it becomes virtual
in each of the derived classes (Triangle, etc). C++ non-virtual function calls are resolved at compile time

with static binding, while virtual function calls are resolved at runtime with dynamic binding.

12.5

Shallow vs Deep Copy: What is the difference between deep copy and shallow copy? Explain how
you would use each.
pg 164

SOLUTION

A shallow copy copies all the member values from one object to another. A deep copy does all this and also
deep copies any pointer objects.
An example of shallow and deep copy is below.
Z|

struct Test {
char *

2

3

ptr;

i

4

5

void

6

shallow_copy(Test & src,

7

4}

9

void deep_copy(Test & src,

8

10

dest.ptr =

am

strcpy(dest.ptr,

12

Test & dest)

{

dest.ptr = src.ptr;

Test & dest)

{

(char*)malloc(strlen(src.ptr)

+ 1);

src.ptr);

}

Note that shal low_copy may cause a lot of programming runtime errors, especially with the creation and
deletion of objects. Shallow copy should be used very carefully and only when a programmer really understands what he wants to do. In most cases, shallow copy is used when there is a need to pass information
about a complex structure without actual! duplication of data. One must also be careful with destruction of

objects in a shallow copy.

In real life, shallow copy is rarely used. Deep copy should be used in most cases, especially when the size of
the copied structure is small.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

425

Solutions to Chapter 12 | Cand C++
12.6

Volatile: What is the significance of the keyword “volatile” in C?
pg 164

SOLUTION

The keyword volatile informs the compiler that the value of variable it is applied to can change from the
outside, without any update done by the code. This may be done by the operating system, the hardware, or
another thread. Because the value can change unexpectedly, the compiler will therefore reload the value
each time from memory.
A volatile integer can be declared by either of the following statements:
int volatile x;
volatile int x;

To declare a pointer to a volatile integer, we do the following:
volatile

int *

x;

int volatile * x;

A volatile pointer to non-volatile data is rare, but can be done.
int

* volatile x;

If you wanted to declare a volatile variable pointer for volatile memory (both pointer address and memory
contained are volatile), you would do the following:
int volatile * volatile x;

Volatile variables are not optimized, which can be very useful. Imagine this function:
1

int opt = 1;

2

void Fn(void)

3

{

start:

4

if (opt == 1)

5

else break;

goto start;

}
At first glance, our code appears to loop infinitely. The compiler may try to optimize it to:
1

void Fn(void)

2

{

start:

3

int opt = 1;

4

if (true)

5

goto

start;

i):
This becomes an infinite loop. However, an external operation might write
‘0’ to the location of variable opt,
thus breaking the loop.
To prevent the compiler from performing such optimization, we want to signal that another element of the
system couldchange the variable. We do this using the volatile keyword, as shown below.
1

volatile

2

void Fn(void)

3

int

opt

=

1;

{

start:

4

if (opt == 1) goto start;

5

else break;

en
Volatile variables are also useful when multi-threaded programs have global variables and any thread can
modify these shared variables. We may not want optimization on these variables.

426

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 12 | C and C++
12.7

Virtual Base Class: Why does a destructor in base class need to be declared virtual?
pg 164

SOLUTION

Let's think about why we have virtual methods to start with. Suppose we have the following code:
1

= =6©class

2

Foo {

public:

void f();

3

ar
5

6

class Bar :

?

public Foo {

public:

void f();

8

2

4}

19

11

Foo * p = new Bar();

12

p->f();

Calling p->f()

will result ina call to Foo: : (). This is becausep is a pointer to Foo, and f ( ) is not virtual.

To ensure that p- >

() will invoke the most derived implementation of £(), we need to declare F() to be

a virtual function.
Now, let’s go back to our destructor. Destructors are used to clean up memory and resources.

If Foo’s

destructor were not virtual, then Foo’s destructor would be called, even whenp is really of type Bar.
This is why we declare destructors to be virtual; we want to ensure that the destructor for the most derived
class is called.

12.8

Copy Node: Write a method that takes a pointer to a Node structure as a parameter and returns a
complete copy of the passed in data structure. The Node data structure contains two pointers to

other Nodes.
pg 164

SOLUTION

The algorithm will maintain a mapping from a node address in the original structure to the corresponding
node in the new structure. This mapping will allow us to discover previously copied nodes during a tradi-

tional depth-first traversal of the structure. Traversals often mark visited nodes—the mark can take many
forms and does not necessarily need to be stored in the node.
Thus, we have a simple recursive algorithm:
1

typedef map<Node*,

Node*> NodeMap;

2

3
4

Node * copy_recursive(Node * cur,
if (cur == NULL)

{

return NULL;

5)

5

NodeMap & nodeMap)

{

ij

7

8

NodeMap::iterator i = nodeMap.find(cur)
;

9

if (i

!= nodeMap.end())

{

16

// we’ve been here before,

V1

return i->second;

12

return the copy

}

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

427

Solutions to Chapter 12 | C and C++
13
14

Node * node = new Node;

15

nodeMap[cur]

16

node->ptri = copy_recursive(cur->ptri, nodeMap)
;

i”

node->ptr2 = copy_recursive(cur->ptr2, nodeMap)
;

18

=

node;

// map

current

before traversing links

return node;

}

i9
28
21

Node * copy_structure(Node * root)

ae

NodeMap nodeMap;

// we will

23

return copy_recursive(root,

need

{
an empty map

nodeMap)
;

}

24

12.9

Smart Pointer: Write a smart pointer class.

A smart pointer is a data type, usually implemented

with templates, that simulates a pointer while also providing automatic garbage collection. It

automatically counts the number of references to a SmartPointer<T*> object and frees the
object of typeT when the reference count hits zero.
pg 164

SOLUTION

A smart pointer is the same as a normal pointer, but it provides safety via automatic memory management.
It avoids issues like dangling pointers, memory leaks and allocation failures. The smart pointer must maintain a single reference count for all references to a given object.
This is one of those problems that seems at first glance pretty overwhelming, especially if you're not a C++
expert. One useful way to approach the problem is to divide the problem into two parts: (1) outline the
pseudocode and approach and then (2) implement the detailed code.

In terms of the approach, we need a reference count variable that is incremented when we add a new reference to the object and decremented when we remove a reference. The code should look something like
the below pseudocode:
1

template

7

<class

T> class SmartPointer {

/* The smart pointer class needs pointers to both the object itself and to the

3

*

ref count.

4

*

value,

&

* tracked

6

These must

be pointers,

since the goal of a

rather than the actual object or ref count

smart pointer is that the

across multiple smart

pointers to one object.

reference count

is

*/

T * obj;

7

unsigned *

&

ref_count;

}

We know we need constructors and a single destructor for this class, so let’s add those first.
SmartPointer(T * object)

q

{

/* We want to set the value of T * obj,

2

and set the reference counter to 1.

*/

}

3
4

5

SmartPointer(SmartPointer<T>& sptr) {

6

/* This

constructor creates a new smart pointer that points to an existing

?

* object.

g

* and ref_count.

S)

* increment ref_count. */

1@

We will need to first set obj

Then,

because we

and

created

ref_count to pointer to sptr’s obj

a new reference to obj,

we

need to

}

44

12

«SmartPointer(SmartPointer<T> sptr) {

13

428

/* We are destroying a

reference to the object.

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Decrement ref_count.

If

Solutions to Chapter 12 | Cand C++
14

*

15

* object.

16

ref_count

is @,

then free the memory created by the integer and destroy the

*/

}

There's one additional way that references can be created: by setting one SmartPointer equal to another.

We'll want to override the equal operator to handle this, but for now, let’s sketch the code like this.
1

onSetEquals(SmartPoint<T> ptr1,
* pointers to obj

3

4
5

SmartPoint<T> ptr2)

/* If ptri has an existing value,

2

*

reference,

{

decrement its reference count.

and ref_count over.

Finally,

we need to increment ref_count.

Then,

copy the

since we created a new

*/

}

Getting just the approach, even without filling in the complicated C++ syntax, would count for a lot.
Finishing out the code is now just a matter offilling the details.
a
2

3

template <class T> class SmartPointer {
public:

SmartPointer(T * ptr)

5

ref_count =

6

*ref_count = 1;

?

{

ref = ptr;

4

(unsigned* )malloc(sizeof(unsigned) ) ;

}

8
g

SmartPointer(SmartPointer<T> & sptr) {
ref = sptr.ref;

12

11

ref_count = sptr.ref_count;

12

++(*ref_count)
;

13

}

14

15

/* Override the equal operator,

so that when you set one smart pointer equal to

16

* another the old smart pointer has its

i?

* smart pointer has

18

its

reference count

reference count incrememented.

SmartPointer<T> & operator=(SmartPointer<T> & sptr)
if (this == &sptr)

18

decremented and the new
*/

{

return *this;

28
21

/* If already assigned to an object,

22

if (*ref_count > ®)

*/

remove
() ;

23

}

24
25

ref = sptr.ref;

26
27

ref_count = sptr.ref_count;

28

++(*ref_count)
;

return

25
36

remove one reference.

{

*this;

t

Bu
32

~SmartPointer() {
remove();

33

34
35

26

T getvalue()

{

return *ref;

37
33

// Remove one reference to object.

}

}

39
AQ

Al

protected:

void remove() {

42

--(*ref_count)
;

43

if (*ref_count == @)

{

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

429

Solutions to Chapter 12 | C and C++
4A

delete ref;

45

free(ref_count)
;

4S

ref = NULL;

AT

ref_count = NULL;

Ag

}

49

}

58

Si

T * ref;

i

unsigned * ref_count;

53};
The code for this problem is complicated, and you probably wouldn't be expected to completeit flawlessly.

12.10 Malloc: Write an aligned malloc and free function that supports allocating memory such that the

memory address returned is divisible by a specific power of two.
EXAMPLE

align_malloc (100,128)

will return a memory address that is a multiple of 128 and that points

to memory of size 1000 bytes.

aligned_free()

will free memory allocated by align_malloc.
pg 164

SOLUTION

Typically, with malloc, we do not have control over where the memory is allocated within the heap. We
just get a pointer to a block of memory which could start at any memory address within the heap.
We need to work with these constraints by requesting enough memory that we can return a memory
address which is divisible by the desired value.
Suppose we are requesting a 100-byte chunk of memory, and we want it to start at a memory address
that is a multiple of 16. How much extra memory would we need to allocate to ensure that we can do so?
We would need to allocate an extra 15 bytes. With these 15 bytes, plus another 100 bytes right after that
sequence, we know that we would have a memory address divisible by 16 with space for 100 bytes.
We could then do something like:
1

void* aligned_malloc(size_t

2

int offset = alignment -

required_bytes,

size_t alignment)

3

void* p =

(void*)

malloc(required_bytes + offset);

4

void* q =

(void*)

(((size_t)(p) + offset) & ~(alignment

5

return q;

&

{

1;
-

1));

4}

Line 4 is a bit tricky, so let's discuss it. Suppose alignment is 16. We know that one of the first 16 memory
address in the block at p must be divisible by 16.With (p + 15) & 11...10000 we advance as need to
this address. ANDing the last four bits of p + 15 with 9@00 guarantees that this new value will be divisible
by 16 (either at the original p or in one of the following 15 addresses).
This solution is almost perfect, except for one big issue: how do we free the memory?
We've allocated an extra 15 bytes, in the above example, and we need to free them when we free the “real”
memory.

We can do this by storing, in this “extra” memory, the address of where the full memory block begins. We

will store this immediately before the aligned memory block. Of course, this means that we now need to
allocate even more extra memory to ensure that we have enough space to store this pointer.

430

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 12 | C and C++
Therefore, to guarantee both an aligned address and space for this pointer, we will need to allocate an addi-

tionalalignment - 1 + sizeof(void*) bytes.
The code below implements this approach.
4

void*

aligned_malloc(sizet required_bytes,

size_t alignment)

2

void* pt;

// initial block
// aligned block inside initial block

{

3

void* p2;

4

int offset = alignment - 1 + sizeof(void*);

5

if ((pl = (void*)malloc(required_bytes + offset)) == NULL) {

5

return NULL;

?

}

p2 = (void*)(((size_ t)(p1) + offset) & ~(alignment

16

ia

-

1));

((void **)p2)[-1] = p1;

$

return

p2;

=F

1s

13

void aligned_free(void *p2)

14

/* for

consistency,

{

we use the same names

13

void* p1 = ((void**)p2)[-1];

16

free(p1);

as

aligned_malloc*/

ory

Let’s look at the pointer arithmeticin lines 9 and 15. If we treat p2 as a void* * (or an array of void*’s), we
can just look at the index -

1 to retrieve p1.

In aligned_free, we take p2 as the same p2 returned from aligned_malloc. As before, we know
that the value of p1 (which points to the beginning of the full memory block) was stored just before p2. By
freeing p1, we deallocate the whole memory block.

12.11

2D Alloc: Write a function in C called my2DAlloc which allocates a two-dimensional array.

Minimize the number of calls to malloc and make sure that the memory is accessible by the
notation arr[i][j].
pg 164

SOLUTION

As you may know, a two-dimensional array is essentially an array of arrays. Since we use pointers with
arrays, we can use double pointers to create a double array.

The basic idea is to create a one-dimensional array of pointers. Then, for each array index, we create a new
one-dimensional array. This gives us a two-dimensional array that can be accessed via array indices.
The code below implements this.
2.

int**

2

my2DAlloc(int

3

int

4

rowptr =

5

for

6

?

int

cols)

{

i;

(int**) malloc(rows

* sizeof(int*));

(i = 0;

i < rows;

it+)

f{

rowptr[i]

= (int*)

malloc(cols

* sizeof (int));

}

8

9

rows,

int** rowptr;

return rowptr;

}

Observe how, in the above code, we've told rowptr where exactly each index should point. The following
diagram represents how this memory is allocated.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

431

Solutions to Chapter 12 | C and C++

To free this memory, we cannot simply call free on rowptr. We need to make sure to free not only the
memory from the first malloc call, but also each subsequent call.
1

void my2DDealloc(int** rowptr,

2

for

3

(i = @;

i <

rows;

i++)

int rows)

{

{

free(rowptr[i]);

4

5

free(rowptr)
;

&

Rather than allocating the memory in many different blocks (one block for each row, plus one block to

specify where each row is located), we can allocate this in a consecutive block of memory. Conceptually, for
a two-dimensional array with five rows and six columns, this would look like the following.

LeccoSilJseeneammmnG
COO DELLE
SCOT3TI
If it seems strange to view the 2D array like this (and it probably does), remember that this is fundamentally
no different than the first diagram. The only difference is that the memory is in a contiguous block, so our
first five (in this example) elements point elsewhere in the same block of memory.

To implement this solution, we do the following.
L

int** my2DAlloc(int

2

int i;

rows,

int cols)

3

int header = rows * sizeof(int*)
;

4

int data = rows * cols

5

int** rowptr =

6

if

{

* sizeof(int);

(int**)malloc(header + data);

(rowptr == NULL)

return NULL;

2

&

int*

buf =

9

for

(i = @;

18

rowptr[i]

11

(rowptr + rows);

i < rows;

i++)

= buf + i *

{

cols;

}

12

2

(int*)

return

rowptr;

}

You should carefully observe what is happening on lines 11 through 13. If there are five rows ofsix columns

each, array[@] will point to array[5], array[1] will point to array[11],and soon.
Then, when we actually call array[1][3], the computer looks up array[1], which is a pointer to

another spot in memory—specifically, a pointer to array[5

]. This elementis treated as its own array, and

we then get the third (zero-indexed) element from it.
Constructing the array in a single call tomal loc has the added benefit of allowing disposal of the array
with a single free call rather than using a special function to free the remaining data blocks.

432

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

13
Solutions to Java

13.1.

Private Constructor: In terms of inheritance, what is the effect of keeping a constructor private?
pg 167

SOLUTION

Declaring a constructor private onclass A means that you can only access the (private) constructor if you
could also access A's private methods. Who, other than A, can access A's private methods and constructor?
A’s inner classes can. Additionally, if A is an inner class of Q, then Q’s other inner classes can.
This has direct implications for inheritance, since a subclass calls its parent’s constructor. The class A can be

inherited, but only by its own or its parent’s inner classes.

13.2

Return from Finally: In Java, does the finally block get executed if we insert a return statement
inside the try block of a try-catch-finally?
pg 167

SOLUTION

Yes, it will get executed. The Finally block gets executed when the try block exits. Even when we

attempt to exit withinthe try block(viaa return statement, a continue statement, a break statement
or any exception), the final1y block will still be executed.
Note that there are some cases in which the Finally block will not get executed, such as the following:
-

Ifthe virtual machine exits during try/catch block execution.

+

If the thread which is executing during the try/ catch block gets killed.

13.3

Final, etc.: What is the difference between final, finally, and finalize?
pg 167

SOLUTIONS

Despite their similar sounding names, final, finally and finalize have very different purposes.
To speak in very general terms, final is used to control whether a variable, method, or class is “changeable” The finally keyword is usedina try/

catch block to ensure that a segment of code is always

executed. The Finalize() method is called by the garbage collector once it determines that no more
references exist.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

433

Solutions to Chapter 13 | Java
Further detail on these keywords and methods is provided below.

final
The final statement has a different meaning depending on its context.
When applied to a variable (primitive):
The value of the variable cannot change.
When applied to a variable (reference): The reference variable cannot point to any other object on the

°

heap.

When applied to a method: The method cannot be overridden.
When applied to a class: The class cannot be subclassed.

finally keyword

There is an optional finally block after the try block or after the catch block. Statements in the

finally

block will always be executed, even if an exception is thrown (except if Java Virtual Machine exits

from the try block). The Finally block is often used to write the clean-up code. It will be executed after
the try and catch blocks, but before control transfers back to its origin.
Watch how this plays out in the example below.
yw
hw Nw Be

public

static String lem()

{

System. out.println(“lem’) ;
return “return from lem’;

}
public static String foo()

{

int x = @;

OM

ingly =)55

try {

System.out.printlin(“start try”);
int

b=y/ x;

System.out.printlin(“end try”);
return “returned from try”;

} catch (Exception ex)

{

System. out.printin(“catch’”)
;

return lem() + “ | returned from catch”;
} finally {
System. out.printin(“finally”)
;

}
22

}

public static void bar()

{

System.out.printin(“start bar’);
String v = foo();
System.out.printin(v)
;
System.out.printin(“end bar’);

}
28

28

public static void main(String[] args)

39

31

}

bar();

The output for this code is the following:
1

Start bar

434

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

{

Solutions to Chapter 13 | Java
2

start try

3.

catch

4

lem

5

finally

F

end

&

return from lem

|

returned from catch

bar

Look carefully at lines 3 to 5 in the output. The catch block is fully executed (including the function call in

the return statement),
then the finally block, and then the function actually returns.

finalize()

The automatic garbage collector calls the finalize() method just before actually destroying the object.

A class can therefore override the Finalize() method from the Object class in order to define custom
behavior during garbage collection.
1

protected void finalize()

2

/* Close open files,

=

throws Throwable {

release

resources,

etc */

|

13.4

Generics vs. Templates: Explain the difference between templates in C++ and generics in Java.
pg 167

SOLUTION

Many programmers consider templates and generics to be essentially equivalent because both allow you

to do something like List<String>. But, how each language does this, and why, varies significantly.
The implementation of Java generics is rooted in an idea of “type erasure.’ This technique eliminates the
parameterized types when source code is translated to the Java Virtual Machine (JVM) byte code.
For example, suppose you have the Java code below:
2

Vector<String>

2

vector.add(new String(“hello”) );

vector = new Vector<String>();

3

String

str = vector.get(@);

During compilation, this code is re-written into:
2

Vector vector = new Vector();

2

vector.add(new String(“hello”));

3

String

str =

(String) vector.get(@);

The use of Java generics didn’t really change much about our capabilities; it just made things a bit prettier.
For this reason, Java generics are sometimes called “syntactic sugar.’
This is quite different from C++. in C++, templates are essentially a glorified macro set, with the compiler

creating a new copy of the template code fOr each type. Proof of this is in the fact that an instance of
MyClass<Foo> will not share a static variable with MyClass<Bar>. Two instances of MyClass<Foo>,
however, will share a static variable.
To illustrate this, consider the code below:
Lo

/*** MyClass.h ***/

2

template<class T>

3

4

static int val;

5

MyClass(int v)

®

class MyClass {

public:
{ val = v;

}

4};

?

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com|6th Edition

435

Solutions to Chapter 13 | Java
8

/*** MyClass.cpp ***/

9

template<typename T>

18

int MyClass<T>::bar;

11

12

template class MyClass<Foo>;

13

template class MyClass<Bar>;

14

15

/*** main.cpp ***/

16

MyClass<Foo> * fool = new MyClass<Foo>(1@);

17

MyClass<Foo> * foo2 = new MyClass<Foo>(15);

18

MyClass<Bar> * bar1 = new MyClass<Bar>(2@);

19

MyClass<Bar> * bar2 = new MyClass<Bar>(35);

2

21

int f1 = fool->val;

22

int f2 = foo2->val;

// will equal

15

23

int

bi =

bari->val;

// will equal

35

24

int

b2

bar2->val;

// will equal

35

=

// will equal 15

In Java, static variables are shared across instances of MyClass, regardless of the different type parameters.
Java generics and C++ templates have a number of other differences. These include:

+
«

(C++ templates can use primitive types, like

int. Java cannot and must instead use Integer.

InJava, you can restrict the template’s type parameters to be of acertaintype. For instance, youmightuse

generics to implement a CardDeck and specify that the type parameter must extend from CardGame.
*

-

InC+4, the type parameter can be instantiated, whereas Java does not support this.

In Java, the type parameter (i.e., the Foo in MyClass<Foo>) cannot be used for static methods and
variables, since these would be shared between MyClass<Foo> and MyClass<Bar>. In C+4, these
classes are different, so the type parameter can be used for static methods and variables.

«

In Java, all instances of MyClass, regardless of their type parameters, are the same type. The type
parameters are erased at runtime. In C++, instances with different type parameters are different types.

Remember: Although Java generics and C++ templates look the same in many ways, they are very different.

13.5

TreeMap, HashMap, LinkedHashMap: Explain the differences between TreeMap, HashMap, and

LinkedHashMap. Provide an example of when each one would be best.
pg 167

SOLUTION
All offer a key->value map and a way to iterate through the keys. The most important distinction between
these classes is the time guarantees and the ordering of the keys.

+

HashMap offers O(1) lookup and insertion. If you iterate through the keys, though, the ordering of the
keys is essentially arbitrary. It is implemented by an array of linked lists.

-

TreeMap offersO(log

N) lookup and insertion. Keys are ordered, so if you need to iterate through

the keys in sorted order, you can. This means that keys must implement the Comparab1e interface.
TreeMap is implemented by a Red-Black Tree.

*

LinkedHashMap offers 0(1) lookup and insertion. Keys are ordered by their insertion order. It is
implemented by doubly-linked buckets.

Imagine you passed an empty TreeMap, HashMap, and LinkedHashMap into the following function:

436

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 13 | Java
i

=void insertAndPrint (AbstractMap<Integer,

2

int[] array = {1,

3

for (int x :

4

map.put(x,

E)

String> map) {

-1, 9};

array) {
Integer.toString(x));

}

6

?

for

8

(int k

:

map.keySet())

{

System.out.print(k + “, “);
s

18

}

The output for each will look like the results below.

Very important: The output of LinkedHashMap and TreeMap must look like the above. For HashMap,

the output was, in my own tests, {@,

1,

-1}, but it could be any ordering. There is no guarantee on the

ordering.

When might you need ordering in real life?
-

Suppose you were creating a mapping of names to Person objects. You might want to periodically
output the people in alphabetical order by name. A TreeMap lets you do this.

«

A TreeMap also offers a way to, given a name, output the next 10 people. This could be useful for a
“More” function in many applications.

A LinkedHashMap is useful whenever you need the ordering of keys to match the ordering of insertion. This might be useful in a caching situation, when you want to delete the oldest item.

Generally, unless there is a reason not to, you would use HashMap. That is, if you need to get the keys back
in insertion order, then use LinkedHashMap. If you need to get the keys back in their true/natural order,
then use TreeMap. Otherwise, HashMap is probably best. It is typically faster and requires less overhead.

13.6

Object Reflection: Explain what object reflection is in Java and why it is useful.
pg 168

SOLUTION

Object Reflection is a feature in Java that provides a way to get reflective information about Java classes and
objects, and perform operations such as:
1. Getting information about the methods and fields present inside the class at runtime.

2. Creating a new instance of a class.
3. Getting and setting the object fields directly by getting field reference, regardless of what the access
modifier is.
The code below offers an example of object reflection.
1

/* Parameters */

2

Object[]

doubleArgs = new Object[]

{ 4.2,

3.9

};

3
4

/* Get class

3

Class rectangleDefinition = Class. forName(“MyProj.Rectangle”)
;

*/

6

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com
| 6th Edition | 437

Solutions to Chapter 13 | Java
/* Equivalent:

7

Rectangle rectangle = new Rectangle(4.2,

3.9);

*/

8

Class[] doubleArgsClass = new Class[] {double.class, double.class};

3

Constructor doubleArgsConstructor =

19

11

rectangleDefinition. getConstructor(doubleArgsClass) ;

Rectangle rectangle = (Rectangle) doubleArgsConstructor .newinstance(doubleArgs) ;

12
i3

/* Equivalent: Double area = rectangle.area();

*/

14

Method m = rectangleDefinition. getDeclaredMethod(“area”) ;

15

Double area =

(Double) m.invoke(rectangle);

This code does the equivalent of:
1

Rectangle rectangle = new Rectangle(4.2,

2

Double area = rectangle.area();

3.9);

Why Is Object Reflection Useful?
Of course, it doesn't seem very useful in the above example, but reflection can be very useful in some cases.
Three main reasons are:
1.

it can help you observe or manipulate the runtime behavior of applications.

2.

it can help you debug or test programs, as you have direct access to methods, constructors, and fields.
You can cal] methods by name when you don’t know the method in advance. For example, we may let

the user pass in a class name, parameters for the constructor, and a method name. We can then use this
information to create an object and call a method. Doing these operations without reflection would
require a complex series of if-statements, if it’s possible at all.

13.7.

Lambda Expressions: There is a class Country that has methods getContinent() and

getPopulation().Write a function int

getPopulation(List<Country>

countries,

String continent) that computes the total population of a given continent, given a list of all
countries and the name of a continent.
pg 168
SOLUTION

This question really comes in two parts. First, we need to generate a list of the countries in North America.
Then, we need to compute their total population.

(6 OG “J CR out te tal ND bs

Without lambda expressions, this is fairly straightforward to do.
int getPopulation(List<Country> countries,

String continent)

{

int sum = @;

for

(Country c

if

:

countries)

{

(c.getContinent().equals(continent))

{

sum += cC.getPopulation();

le

}

return sum;

}

To implement this with lambda expressions, let’s break this up into multiple parts.

First, we use Filter to get a list of the countries in the specified continent.
z

Stream<Country>

2

country -> {

438

northAmerica = countries.stream().filter(
return country. getContinent().equals
(continent) ; }

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 13 | Java
Y3

3

Second, we convert this into a list of populations using map.
i

Stream<Integer> populations = northAmerica.map(

2

c

->

c.getPopulation()

3)
Third and finally, we compute the sum using reduce.
i

int population = populations.reduce(@,

(a,

b)

-> a + b);

This function puts it all together.
1

int getPopulation(List<Country> countries,

2

/* Filter countries.

=

Stream<Country>

4

country

->

{

String continent)

{

*/

sublist = countries.stream().filter(
return

country.getContinent() .equals(continent) ;}

);

3
6

?

/* Convert to

8

Stream<Integer>

9

c

->

list of populations.

*/

populations = sublist.map(

c.getPopulation()

IF

18
abit

12

/* Sum list.

13

int population = populations.reduce(®,

*/

14

return

(a,

b)

-> a +b);

population;

15}

Alternatively, because of the nature of this specific problem, we can actually remove the filter entirely.
The reduce operation can have logic that maps the population of countries not in the right continent to

zero. The sum will effectively disregard countries not within continent.
a

int

2

getPopulation(List<Country>

Stream<Integer>

2

c

4

return

countries,

String

continent)

{

populations = countries.stream().map(

-> c.getContinent().equals(continent)
populations.reduce(@,

(a,

b)

? c.getPopulation()

:

@);

-> a + b);

>
Lambda functions were new to Java 8, so if you don’t recognize them, that’s probably why. Now is a great
time to learn about them, though!

13.8

Lambda

Random:

Using

Lambda _ expressions,

getRandomSubset(List<Integer>

write

a

function

List<Integer>

list) that returns a random subset ofarbitrary size. All

subsets (including the empty set) should be equally likely to be chosen.
pg 439

SOLUTION

It's tempting to approach this problem by picking a subset size from 8 to N and then generating a random
subset of that size.
That creates two issues:

1. We'd have to weight those probabilities. IfN

>

1, there are more subsets of size N/2 than there are of

subsets of size N (of which there is always only one).

2. it’s actually more difficult to generate a subset of a restricted size (e.g., specifically 10) than it is to
generate a subset of any size.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com| 6th Edition

439

Solutions to Chapter 13 | Java
Instead, rather than generating a subset based on sizes, let's think about it based on elements. (The fact

that we're told to use lambda expressions is also a hint that we should think about some sort of iteration or
processing through the elements.)

Imagine we were iterating through {1,

2,

3} to generate a subset. Should 1 be in this subset?

We've got two choices: yes or no. We need to weight the probability of “yes”
vs. “no” based on the percent of
subsets that contain 1. So, what percent of elements contain 1?

For any specific element, there are as many subsets that contain the element as do not contain it. Consider
the following:

{}
{2}
{3}
{2, 3}

{1}
{1, 2}
{1, 3}
nee 25 eh

Note how the difference between the subsets on the left and the subsets on the right is the existence of
1. The left and right sides must have the same number of subsets because we can convert from one to the

other byjust adding an element.

This means that we can generate a random subset by iterating through the list and flipping a coin (i.e.,
deciding on a 50/50 chance) to pick whether or not each element will be in it.
Without lambda expressions, we can write something like this:
be

List<Integer> getRandomSubset(List<Integer> list)

{

Ww NM

List<Integer> subset = new ArrayList<Integer>();
Random random = new Random();

OS ul mm

for (int item
/*

:

Flip coin.

list)

{

*/

if (random.nextBoolean())

{

}

0

Oo =

subset .add(item) ;

}

19

return

subset;

11
}

To implement this approach using lambda expressions, we can do the following:
1

List<Integer> getRandomSubset(List<Integer> list)

2

Random random = new Random();

3

List<Integer> subset = list.stream().filter(

4

k -> {

5

return random.nextBoolean();

/*

{

Flip coin.

*/

}).collect(Collectors.toList());

&

return subset;

ik

?

Or, we can use a predicate (defined within the class or within the function):
1

Random random = new Random();

2

Predicate<Object> flipCoin = 0 -> {

3

return random.nextBoolean()
;

3;

4
5

6

List<Integer> getRandomSubset(List<Integer> list)

?

{

List<Integer> subset = list.stream().filter(flipCoin).

3

collect(Collectors.toList());

s

return subset;

10

}

The nice thing about this implementation is that now we can apply the f1ipCoin predicate in other places.

440

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Databases

Questions 1 through 3 refer to the following database schema:

AptID
UnitNumber

int
| varchar(10)

BuildingID | int

Compiexes
ComplexID

BuildingID

int

RequestID

int

ComplexID

int

Status

varchar (109)

BuildingName | varchar(10@)

AptID —_ | ant

Address

Description | varchar (5@@)

varchar(5@@)

AptTenants
int

ComplexName | varchar(1@@)

Tenants

TenantiID

int

TenantID

int

AptID

int

TenantName | varchar(16@)

Note that each apartment can have multiple tenants, and each tenant can have multiple apartments. Each

apartment belongs to one building, and each building belongs to one complex.

14.1.

Multiple Apartments: Write a SOL query to get a list of tenants who are renting more than one
apartment.
pg 172

SOLUTION
To implement this, we can use the HAVING and GROUP BY clauses and then perform an INNER JOIN with

be
PR

FROM Tenants
INNER JOIN

Wl

fa

SELECT TenantName

WwW

Tenants.

(SELECT TenantID FROM AptTenants GROUP BY TenantID HAVING count(*)

> 1) C

ON Tenants.TenantID = C.TenantID

Whenever you write a GROUP

BY clause in an interview (or in real life), make sure that anything in the

SELECT clause is either an aggregate function or contained within the GROUP BY clause.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

441

Solutions to Chapter 14 | Databases
14.2

Open Requests: Write a SQL query to get a list of all buildings and the number of open requests
(Requests in which status equals ‘Open’).
pg 173

SOLUTION

This problem uses a straightforward join of Requests and Apartments to get a list of building IDs and
the number of open requests. Once we have this list, we join it again with the Buildings table.
4

SELECT BuildingName,

2

FROM Buildings

3

LEFT JOIN

4

ISNULL(Count,

(SELECT Apartments.BuildingID,

@)

as

‘Count’

count(*)

5

FROM Requests

5

ON Requests .AptID = Apartments .AptID

as

‘Count?

INNER JOIN Apartments

7

WHERE Requests.Status =

8

GROUP BY Apartments.BuildingID) ReqCounts

‘Open’

&

ON ReqCounts.BuildingID = Buildings .BuildingID

Queries like this that utilize sub-queries should be thoroughly tested, even when coding by hand. It may be

useful to test the inner part of the query first, and then test the outer part.

14.3

Close All Requests: Building #11 is undergoing a major renovation. Implement a query to close all

requests from apartments in this building.
pg 173

SOLUTION

UPDATE queries, like SELECT queries, can have WHERE clauses.
To implement this query, we get a list ofall
apartment IDs within building #11 and the list of update requests from those apartments.
i

UPDATE

2

SET Status =

3

WHERE AptID IN (SELECT AptID FROM Apartments WHERE BuildingID = 11)

14.4

Requests

‘Closed’

Joins: What are the different types of joins? Please explain how they differ and why certain types
are better in certain situations.
pg 173

SOLUTION
JOIN is used to combine the results of two tables. To perform a JOIN, each of the tables must have at
least one field that will be used to find matching records from the other table. The join type defines which
records will go into the result set.

1 et’s take for example two tables: one table lists the “regular” beverages, and another lists the calorie-free
beverages. Each table has two fields: the beverage name and its product code. The “code’ field will be used
to perform the record matching.
Regular Beverages:

442

Budweiser

BUDWEISER

Coca-Cola

COCACOLA

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 14 | Databases

Pepsi

Calorie-Free Beverages:

Name

| Code —

Diet Coca-Cola

COCACOLA

Fresca

FRESCA

Diet Pepsi

PEPSI

Pepsi Light

PEPSI

Purified Water

water

_

If
we wanted to join Beverage withCalorie-Free Beverages, we would have many options. These
are discussed below.
INNER

JOIN: The result set would contain only the data where the criteria match. In our example, we

would get three records: one with a COCACOLA code and two with PEPSI codes.
OUTER JOIN: ANOUTER JOIN will always contain the results of INNER JOIN, but it may also contain
some records that have no matching record in the other table. OUTER

JOINs are divided into the

following subtypes:
»

LEFT OUTER JOIN, orsimply LEFT JOIN: The result will contain all records from the left table.

if no matching records were found in the right table, then its fields will contain the NULL values. In
our example, we would get four records. In addition to INNER JOIN results, BUDWEISER would
be listed, because it was in the left table.

RIGHT OUTER JOIN, orsimply RIGHT JOIN: This type ofjoin is the opposite of LEFT JOIN. It
will contain every record from the right table; the missing fields from the left table will be NULL.
Note that if we have two tables, A and B, then we can say that the statement A LEFT JOIN Bis
equivalent to the statement B RIGHT JOIN A.In our example above, we will get five records. In
addition to INNER JOIN results, FRESCA and WATER records will be listed.

FULL OUTER

JOIN: This type of join combines the results of the LEFT and RIGHT

JOINS. All

records from both tables will be included in the result set, regardless of whether or not a matching
record exists in the other table. If no matching record was found, then the corresponding result
fields will have

14.5

aNULL value. In our example, we will get six records.

Denormalization: What is denormalization? Explain the pros and cons.
pg 173

SOLUTION

Denormalization is a database optimization technique in which we add redundant data to one or more
tables. This can help us avoid costly joins in a relational database.
By contrast, in a traditional normalized database, we store data in separate logical tables and attempt to
minimize redundant data. We may strive to have only one copy of each piece of data in the database.
For example, ina normalized database, we might have a Courses table anda Teachers table. Each entry
in Courses would store the teacher
ID for a Course but not the teacherName. When we need to

retrieve a list of all Courses with the Teacher name, we would do a join between these two tables.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

443

Solutions to Chapter 14 | Databases
In some ways, this is great; if a teacher changes his or her name, we only have to update the name in one
place.
The drawback, however, is that if the tables are large, we may spend an unnecessarily long time doing joins
on tables.

Denormalization, then, strikes a different compromise. Under denormalization, we decide that we're okay
with some redundancy and some extra effort to update the database in order to get the efficiency advan-

tages of fewer joins.

Cons
of Denormalization
Updates and inserts are more expensive.

Denormalization can make update and insert code | Queries to retrieve can be simpler (and therefore
harder to write.

less likely to have bugs), since we need to look at

fewer tables.
Data may be inconsistent. Which is the “correct”

value for a piece of data?
Data redundancy necessitates more storage.

In a system that demands scalability, like that of any major tech companies, we almost always use elements
of both normalized and denormalized databases.

14.6

Entity-Relationship Diagram: Draw an entity-relationship diagram for a database with companies,
people, and professionals (people who work for companies).
pg 173

SOLUTION

People who work for Companies are Professionals. So, there is an ISA (‘is a”) relationship between
People and Professionals (or we could say that a Professional is derived from People).
Each Professional has additional information such as degree and work experiences in addition to the
properties derived from People.
A Professional works for one company at a time (probably—you might want to validate this assump-

tion), but Companies can hire many Professionals. So, there is a many-to-one relationship between
Professionals and Companies. This “Works For” relationship can store attributes such as an employee's
start date and salary. These attributes are defined only when we relate a Professional with a Company.
A Person can have multiple phone numbers, which is why Phone is a multi-valued attribute.

444

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 14 | Databases

Date of

Joining
ISA

| Professional —

Works For

Companies |

Experience
Salary

14.7.

Design Grade Database: Imagine a simple database storing information for students’ grades.
Design what this database might look like and provide a SQL query to return a list of the honor roll
students (top 10%), sorted by their grade point average.
pg 173

SOLUTION

In a simplistic database, we'll have at least three objects: Students, Courses, and CourseEnrollment.
Students will have at least a student name and ID and will likely have other personal information.
Courses will contain the course name and ID and will likely contain the course description, professor, and
other information. CourseEnrollment will pair Students and Courses and will also contain a field for

CourseGrade.

StudentID

int

StudentName

varchar(100)

Address

varchar(50@)

Courses

CourseID

int

CourseName

varchar(10@)

ProfessorID

int

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

445

Solutions to Chapter 14 | Databases

CourseID

int

StudentID

int

Grade

Float

Term

int

This database could get arbitrarily more complicated if we wanted to add in professor information, billing
information, and other data.
Using the Microsoft SQL Server TOP

...

PERCENT function, we might (incorrectly) first try a query like

this:
1

SELECT TOP 1@ PERCENT AVG(CourseEnrollment.Grade) AS GPA,
CourseEnrollment.StudentID

2

3

FROM CourseEnrollment

4

GROUP BY CourseEnrollment.StudentID

5

ORDER BY AVG(CourseEnrollment.Grade)

The problem with the above code is that it will return literally the top 10% of rows, when sorted by GPA.
Imagine a scenario in which there are 100 students, and the top 15 students all have 4.0 GPAs. The above

function will only return 10 of those students, which is not really what we want. In case of a tie, we want to
include the students who tied for the top 10% -- even if this means that our honor roll includes more than
10% of the class.
To correct this issue, we can build something similar to this query, but instead first get the GPA cut off.
1

DECLARE @GPACutOff float;

2

SET @GPACUtOff = (SELECT min(GPA)

3

as

‘GPAMin’

FROM (

SELECT TOP 1@ PERCENT AVG(CourseEnrollment.Grade) AS GPA

4

FROM CourseEnrollment

5

GROUP BY CourseEnrollment .StudentID

6

ORDER BY GPA desc) Grades)
;

Then, once we have @GPACutOFf defined, selecting the students with at least this GPA is reasonably
straightforward.
1

SELECT StudentName,

2

FROM (SELECT AVG(CourseEnrollment.Grade) AS GPA, CourseEnrollment .StudentID

GPA

&

FROM CourseEnrollment

4

GROUP BY CourseEnrollment .StudentID

5
6

HAVING AVG(CourseEnrollment.Grade)
INNER JOIN Students

>= @GPACutOff) Honors

ON Honors.StudentID = Student.StudentID

Be very careful about what implicit assumptions you make. If you look at the above database description,
what potentially incorrect assumption do you see? One is that each course can only be taught by one

professor. At some schools, courses may be taught by multiple professors.
However, you will need to make some assumptions, or you'd drive yourself crazy. Which assumptions you
make is less important than just recognizing that you made assumptions. Incorrect assumptions, both in

the real world and in an interview, can be dealt with as long as they are acknowledged.

Remember, additionally, that there’s a trade-off between flexibility and complexity. Creating a system in

which a course can have multiple professors does increase the database's flexibility, but it also increases its
complexity. If we tried to make our database flexible to every possible situation, we'd wind up with some-

thing hopelessly complex.
Make your design reasonably flexible, and state any other assumptions or constraints.
This goes for not just
database design, but object-oriented design and programming in general.

446

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

15
Solutions to Threads and Locks

15.1

Thread vs. Process: What's the difference between a thread and a process?
pg 179

SOLUTION
Processes and threads are related to each other but are fundamentally different.
A process can be thought ofas an instance ofa program in execution. A process is an independent entity to
which system resources (e.g., CPU time and memory) are allocated. Each process is executed in a separate

address space, and one process cannot access the variables and data structures of another process. If a
process wishes to access another process’ resources, inter-process communications have to be used. These
include pipes, files, sockets, and other forms.
A thread exists within a process and shares the process’ resources (including its heap space). Multiple

threads within the same process will share the same heap space. This is very different from processes, which
cannot directly access the memory of another process. Each thread still has its own registers and its own
stack, but other threads can read and write the heap memory.
A thread is a particular execution path of a process. When one thread modifies a process resource, the
change is immediately visible to sibling threads.

15.2

Context Switch: How would you measure the time spent in a context switch?
pg 179

SOLUTION
This is a tricky question, but let's start with a possible solution.

A context switch is the time spent switching between two processes (i.e., bringing a waiting process into

execution and sending an executing process into waiting/terminated state). This happens in multitasking.
The operating system must bring the state information of waiting processes into memory and save the

state information of the currently running process.
In order to solve this problem, we would like to record the timestamps of the last and first instruction Of

the swapping processes. The context switch time is the difference in the timestamps between the two
processes.

Let’s take an easy example: Assume there are only two processes, P, and P,.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

447

Solutions to Chapter 15 | Threads and Locks
P, is executing and P,, is waiting for execution. At some point, the operating system must swap P, and P,—
let's assume it happens at the Nth instruction of P,. If t, , indicates the timestamp in microseconds of the
kth instruction of process x, then the context switch would take t, ,

-

t, , microseconds.

The tricky part is this: how do we know when this swapping occurs? We cannot, of course, record the timestamp of every instruction in the process.

Another issue is that swapping is governed by the scheduling algorithm of the operating system and
there may be many kernel level threads which are also doing context switches. Other processes could be
contending for the CPU or the kernel handling interrupts. The user does not have any control over these
extraneous context switches. For instance, if at time ct the kernel decides to handle an interrupt, then the
context switch time would be overstated.

In order to overcome these obstacles, we must first construct an environment such that after P, executes,
the task scheduler immediately selects P, to run. This may be accomplished by constructing a data channel,

such as a pipe, between P, and P, and having the two processes play a game of ping-pong with a data
token.

That is, let’s allow P, to be the initial sender and P, to be the receiver. Initially, P, is blocked (sleeping) as it
awaits the data token. When P,, executes, it delivers the token over the data channel to P, and immediately
attempts to read a response token. However, since P,, has not yet had a chance to run, no such token is available for P, and the process is blocked. This relinquishes the CPU.
A context switch results and the task scheduler must select another process to run. Since P, is now in a
ready-to-run state, it is a desirable candidate to be selected by the task scheduler for execution. When P,,

runs, the roles of P, and P, are swapped. P,, is now acting as the sender and P,, as the blocked receiver. The
game ends when P, returns the token to P.,.

To summarize, an iteration of the game is played with the following steps:
1. P, blocks awaiting data from P.,.
P, marks the start time.

P, sends token to P,,.

OP

P, is scheduled and receives the token.

SS

P, attempts to read a response token from P.,. This induces a context switch.

P, attempts read a response token from P,. This induces a context switch.

P, sends a response token to P.,.

P, is scheduled and receives the token.
P, marks the end time.

The key is that the delivery of a data token induces a context switch. Let

T, and T_ be the time it takes to

deliver and receive a data token, respectively, and let T. be the amount of time spent in a context switch. At
step 2, P, records the timestamp ofthe delivery of the token, and at step 9, it records the timestamp of the

response. The amount of time elapsed, T, between these events may be expressed by:
T=

2 *

(1,47,
+ T,)

This formula arises because of the following events: P, sends a token (3), the CPU context switches (4), P,
receives it (5). P, then sends the response token (6), the CPU context switches {7), and finally P , receives it

(8).

448

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 15 | Threads and Locks
P, will be able to easily compute T, since this is just the time between events 3 and 8. So, to solve for T., we

must first determine the value of T, + T..
How can we do this? We can do this by measuring the length of time it takes P, to send and receive a token

to itself. This will not induce a context switch since P, is running on the CPU at the time it sent the token and
will not block to receive it.

The game is played a number of iterations to average out any variability in the elapsed time between steps

2 and 9 that may result from unexpected kernel interrupts and additional kernel! threadscontending for the
CPU. We select the smallest observed context switch time as our final answer.
However, all we can ultimately say that this is an approximation which depends on the underlying system.
For example, we make the assumption that P, is selected to run once a data token becomes available.
However, this is dependent on the implementation of the task scheduler and we cannot make any guarantees.

That’s okay; it’s important in an interview to recognize when your solution might not be perfect.

15.3.

Dining Philosophers: In the famous dining philosophers problem, a bunch of philosophers are

sitting around a circular table with one chopstick between each of them. A philosopher needs both
chopsticks to eat, and always picks up the left chopstick before the right one. A deadlock could

potentially occurif all the philosophers reached for the left chopstick at the same time. Using threads
and locks, implement a simulation of the dining philosophers problem that prevents deadlocks.
pg 780

SOLUTION

First, let’s implement a simple simulation of the dining philosophers problem in which we don't concern
ourselves with deadlocks. We can implement this solution by having Phi losopher extend Thread, and

Chopstick call lock. lock() when it is picked up and Lock. unlock() when it is put down.
1

class Chopstick {

2

private Lock lock;

3
4

public Chopstick()

3

{

lock = new ReentrantLock();

6

b

7

8

public void pickUp()

9

void lock.lock();

19

{

}

11

42

public void putDown()

13
14

15

{

lock .unlock() ;
}

}

16

17

class

Philosopher extends Thread {

18

private int bites = 10;

19

private Chopstick left,

right;

20

21

public Philosopher(Chopstick left,

22

this.left = left;

23

this.right = right;

Chopstick right)

{

24}

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

449

solutions to Chapter 15 | Threads and Locks
25

26

public void eat() {

a

pickUp();

28

chew();

23

putDown();

38

}

Es

32

public void pickUp() {

28

left.pickUp();

34

right .pickUp();

35

}

36

37

public void chew() { }

38

Se

public void putDown() {

4e@

right .putDown() ;

41

left. putDown() ;

42

}

43

44

public void run()

4s

for (int i = 0;

46

i < bites;

i++) {

eat();

4?

}

48
4s

{

}
}

Running the above code may lead to a deadlockif all the philosophers have a left chopstick and are waiting
for the right
one.
Solution #1: All or Nothing

To prevent deadlocks, we can implement a strategy where a philosopher will put down his left chopstick if
he is unable to obtain the right one.
1

public class Chopstick {

o

/* same as before */

3

4

public boolean pickUp()

5

{

return lock.tryLock()
;

6
7

3}

ij

8

9

public class Philosopher extends Thread {

18

/* same as before */

11

12

public void eat()

13

if

14

{

{

chew();

is

putDown()
;

16
17

(pickUp())

}
}

18

19

public boolean pickUp() {

28

/* attempt to pick up */

21

if (!left.pickUp())

22

return false:

{

23

}

24

if (!right.pickUp()) {

450

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 15 | Threads and Locks
25

left. putDown()

26

return false;

27

}

28

return true;

2s

5

}

36}

In the above code, we need to be sure to release the left chopstick if we cant pick up the right one—and to

not call putDown( ) on the chopsticks if we never had them in the first place.
One issue with this is that if all the philosophers were perfectly synchronized, they could simultaneously
pick up their left chopstick, be unable to pick up the right one, and then put back down the left one—only
to have the process repeated again.
Solution #2: Prioritized Chopsticks

Alternatively, we can label the chopsticks with a number from

@toN

-

1. £ach philosopher attempts to

pick up the lower numbered chopstick first. This essentially means that each philosopher goes for the left
chopstick before right one (assuming that's the way you labeled it), except for the last philosopher who
does this in reverse. This will break the cycle.
i

public

class

Philosopher extends

2

private int bites

3

private Chopstick lower,

4

private int index;

5

public Philosopher(int i,

&

index = i;

7

if

8

{

(left.getNumber()

higher;
Chopstick left,

<

Chopstick right)

right.getNumber())

{

{

this.lower = left;

9

this.higher

=

right;

} else {

1e
14

this.lower =

i2

this.higher = left;

13
14

Thread

= 19;

right;

i)
}

15

is

public void eat()

1?

pickUp();

is

chew();

19

28

{

putDown()
;

}

21

22

public void

23

24
25

pickUp()

{

lower .pickUp();

higher. pickUp();
}

26

27

public void

chew()

{

public void

putDown()

...

}

28

29

38
31
22

{

higher
.
putDown( ) ;
lower. putDown() ;
}

33

34

35
36

public void

run()

for (int i = @;

{

i < bites;

i++) {

eat();

CrackingTheCoding|nterview.com | 6th Edition

451

Solutions to Chapter 15 | Threads and Locks
37

}

38

}

33}
48

41

public class Chopstick {

42

private

43

private int number;

Lock lock;

44

45

public Chopstick(int n)

46

{

lock = new ReentrantLock()
;

47

this.number = n;

48

}

49

58

public void pickUp() {

51

lock.lock();
}

52
53

54

public void

SS

putDown()

{

lock.unlock();
}

56
De

58

public int getNumber() {

59

return number;

60

61

}

}

With this solution, a philosopher can never hold the larger chopstick without holding the smaller one. This
prevents the ability to have a cycle, since a cycle means that a higher chopstick would “point” to a lower one.

15.4

Deadlock-Free Class: Design a class which provides a lock only if there are no possible deadlocks.
pg 180

SOLUTION

There are several common ways to prevent deadlocks. One of the popular ways is to require a process to
declare upfront what locks it will need. We can then verify if a deadlock would be created by issuing these
locks, and we can fail if so.
With these constraints in mind, let’s investigate how we can detect deadlocks. Suppose this was the order

of locks requested:
A= {1,

2,

3, 4}

C = {7,

5,

9,

2}

This may create a deadlock because we could have the following scenario:
A locks 2, waits on 3
B locks

3,

waits on 5

C locks 5, waits on 2
We can think about this as a graph, where 2 is connected to 3, 3 is connected to 5, and 5 is connected to

2. A deadlock is represented by a cycle. An edge (w,

Vv) exists in the graph if a process declares that it

will request lock v immediately after lock w. For the earlier example, the following edges would exist in the

graph:(1,

2),

(2,

3),

(3, 4),

(1,

3),

of the edge does not matter.

452

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

(3,

5),

(7,

5),

(5, 9),

(9,

2). The “owner”

Solutions to Chapter 15 | Threads and Locks
This class will need a declare method, which threads and processes will use to declare what order they
will request resources in. This declare method will iterate through the declare order, adding each contig-

uous pair of elements (v, w) to the graph. Afterwards, it will check to see if any cycles have been created. If
any cycles have been created, it will backtrack, removing these edges from the graph, and then exit.
We have one final component to discuss: how do we detect a cycle? We can detect a cycle by doing a
depth-first search through each connected component (i.e., each connected part of the graph). Complex

algorithms exist to find all the connected components of a graph, but our work in this problem does not
require this degree of complexity.
We know that if a cycle was created, one of our new edges must be to blame. Thus, as long as our depth-

first search touches all of these edges at some point, then we know that we have fully searched for a cycle.
The pseudocode for this special case cycle detection looks like this:
1

boolean checkForCycle(locks[]

2

touchedNodes

locks)

{

= hash table(lock -> boolean)

3

initialize touchedNodes to false for each lock in locks

4

for each

(lock x in process.locks) {

5

if (touchedNodes[x]

== false) {

6

if (hasCycle(x,

touchedNodes))

{

Wi

return true;

touchedNodes)

{

}

8

}

9

18

}

11
12

return false;
}

13

14

boolean hasCycle(node x,

15

touchedNodes[r]

16

if (x.state == VISITING)

17

{

return true;

18

} else if (x.state == FRESH)

1%

.-»-

20
21

= true;

{

(see full code below)

}
}

In the above code, note that we may do several depth-first searches, but touchedNodes is only initialized
once. We iterate until all the values in touchedNodes are false.
The code below provides further details. For simplicity, we assume that all locks and processes (owners) are
ordered sequentially.
3

2

class

LockFactory {

private static

LockFactory instance;

3

4

private int numberOfLocks = 5;

5

private LockNode[] locks;

/* default */

6

7

/* Maps from a process or owner to the order that the owner claimed it would

8

* call the locks in */

9

private HashMap<Integer,

LinkedList<LockNode>> lockOrder
;

18

11

private

12

public static

LockFactory(int count)

{

...

}

LockFactory getInstance()

{ return

instance;

}

i

14

public static synchronized LockFactory initialize(int count)

15

if (instance == null) instance = new LockFactory(count)
;

{

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

453

Solutions to Chapter 15 | Threads and Locks
16

1?

return instance;

}

18

i

public boolean hasCycle(HashMap<Integer, Boolean> touchedNodes,

20

int[]

21

/ *check for a cycle */

22

for

23

(int

resource

:

resourcesInOrder) {

resourcesInOrder)

if (touchedNodes.get(resource)

24

LockNode n = locks[{resource];

25

if (n.hasCycle(touchedNodes))

26

{

{

return true;

27

}

28

}

23

}

30

return false;

31

{

== false)

}

32

33

/ *To prevent deadlocks, force the processes to declare upfront what order they

34

* will need the locks in. Verify that this order does not create a deadlock (a

35

36

* cycle in a directed graph)

*/

public boolean declare(int ownerId,

37

HashMap<Integer,

int[]

resourcesInOrder)

{

Boolean> touchedNodes = new HashMap<Integer,

Boolean>();

38

og

/ *add nodes to graph */

AO

int index = 1;

41

touchedNodes.put(resourcesInOrder[@],

42

for

(index = 1;

index <

false);

resourcesInOrder.length;

index++)

43

LockNode prev = locks[resourcesInOrder[index -

44

LockNode curr = locks[resourcesInOrder|[
index ] ];

45

prev. joinTo(curr) ;

46

touchedNodes.
put
(resourcesInOrder[index],

47

{

1]];

false);

}

88

49

/ *if we created a cycle,

528

if (hasCycle(touchedNodes, resourcesInOrder)) {

Si

for (int j = 13;

destroy this

resource list and

j < resourcesInOrder.length;

SZ

LockNode p = locks[resourcesInOrder[j

53

LockNode c = locks[resourcesInOrder[j]];

54

j++)

return false */

{

- 1]];

p.remove(c);

55

}

56

return false;

57

}

58

59

/

690

*No cycles

detected.

Save

the

order

that was

declared,

61

*

it would.

*/

62

LinkedList<LockNode> list = new LinkedList<LockNode>();

63

for (int i = @;

64

i < resourcesInOrder.length;

list.add(resource)
;

66

}

67

lockOrder.put(ownerId, list);

68
65

return

true;

}

7

454

i++)

LockNode resource = locks[resourcesInOrder[i]];

65

78

so that we

can

* verify that the process is really calling the locks in the order it said

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

{

Solutions to Chapter 15 | Threads and Locks
72

/* Get the lock,

verifying first that the process is really calling the locks in

73

* the order it said it would.

74

public Lock getLock(int ownerId,

75

LinkedList<LockNode>

76

if

(list == null)

*/

int resourceID)

{

list = lockOrder.get(ownerId)
;

return null;

VF

78

LockNode head = list.getFirst();

79

if (head.getId() == resourceID)

8e

{

list.removeFirst();

81

return head.getLock();

82

}

83

return null;

}

84

}
85
86

87

38

public class LockNode {

public enum VisitState { FRESH,

VISITING, VISITED };

89

90

private ArrayList<LockNode>

91

private int lockId;

92

private Lock lock;

93

private int maxLocks;

children;

94

95

public LockNode(int id,

int max) {

...

}

96

97

/* Join “this” to “node”,

98

public void joinTo(LockNode node) { children.add(node);

checking that it doesn’t create a cycle */

99

public void remove(LockNode node) { children.remove(node);

}
}

186

10%

=6(/* Check for a cycle by doing a depth-first-search.

102

public boolean hasCycle(HashMap<Integer,

103

VisitState[]

104

for

105

1 < maxLocks;

i++)

{

= VisitState. FRESH;

}

10?
102

visited = new VisitState[maxLocks
];

(int i = 63;

visited[i]

106

*/

Boolean> touchedNodes) {

return hasCycle(visited,

touchedNodes)
;

«=+}

10°

11@

private boolean hasCycle(VisitState[]

visited,

113

HashMap<Integer,

112

if (touchedNodes.containsKey(lockId)) {

113

114

touchedNodes.put(lockId,

Boolean> touchedNodes)

{

true);

}

115

116
117

if (visited[lockId]

118

1138
128

== VisitState.VISITING)

/* We looped back to this
*

a cycle.

node while

{

still visiting it,

so we know there’s

*/

return true;
} else if (visited[lockId]

== VisitState.FRESH)

121

visited[lockId]

= VisitState.VISITING;

122

for

:

123

(LockNode n

children)

{

{

if (n.hasCycle(visited, touchedNodes)) {

124

return true;

125

}

126

}

127

visited[lockId]

= VisitState.VISITED;

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

455

Solutions to Chapter 15 | Threads and Locks
128

}

129

return false;

1360}
ie

132

public Lock getLock()

{

133

if (lock == null) lock = new ReentrantLock();

134

return lock;

13508;
136
137

public int getId() { return lockId;

}

138 }

As always, when you see code this complicated and lengthy, you wouldn't be expected to write all of it.

More likely, you would be asked to sketch out pseudocode and possibly implement one of these methods.

15.5

Callln Order: Suppose we have the following code:
public class

Foo {

public Foo()

...

}

public void first()

{

{

public void second()
public void third()

...
{

{

}

...
...

}
}

}
The same instance of Foo will be passed to three different threads. ThreadA will call first, threadB
will call second, and threadC will call third. Design a mechanism to ensure that First is called

before second and second is called before third,
pg 180

SOLUTION

The general logic is to check if First() has completed before executing second(), and if second()
has completed before calling third(). Because we need to be very careful about thread safety, simple
boolean flags won't do the job.
What about using a Lock to do something like the below code?
1

public class FooBad {

2

public

int pauseTime = 1000;

3

public

ReentrantLock lock1,

lock2;

4

5

public FooBad() {

§

try {

a

locki = new ReentrantLock();

8

lock2 = new ReentrantLock();

S

18

lock1i.lock();

11

lock2.lock();

12

13

}

catch

(...)

{

-..

}

}

14

15

public void first()

16

{

try {

1?

wee

18

lock1.unlock(); // mark finished with first()

19
22

456

} catch

(...) {

...

}

}

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 15 | Threads and Locks
al

22

public void second() {
try {

23
34

lock1.lock();

25

lock1.unlock();

// wait until finished with first()

26
27

28

lock2.unlock();

29

} catch (...) {

38

// mark finished with second()

...

}

}

ath

32

public void third() {
try {

a3
34

lock2.lock()3;

25

lock2.unlock();

36

// wait until finished with third()

pate

37

} catch (...)

38

{

...

}

}

39}

This code won't actually quite work due to the concept of lock ownership. One thread is actually performing
the lock (in the FooBad constructor), but different threads attempt to unlock the locks. This is not allowed,
and your code will raise an exception. A lock in Java is owned by the same thread which locked it.

Instead, we canreplicate this behavior with semaphores. The logic is identical.
1.

public class Foo {

2

public Semaphore

sem1,

sem2;

3

4

public

5

Foo()

{

try {

6

sem1l = new Semaphore(1);

7

sem2 = new Semaphore(1);

8

=

sem1.acquire();

12

sem2.acquire();

11

“la

}

catch

(...)

{

...

}

}

1.3)

14

public

Ie

void first()

{

try {

16

ers

17

sem1.release();

is
19

}

catch

(...)

{

...

}

}

28

21

public void second()

22

23

sem1.acquire();

24

seml.release();

Zs

rar

26

sem2.release();

27
28

{

try {

}

catch

(...)

{

...

}

}

28

38
31

32

public void third()

{

try {

sem2.acquire();

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

457

Solutions to Chapter 15 | Threads and Locks
33

sem2.release();

34.

piece

} catch (...){ ... }

35
36

37

}

}

15.6

Synchronized Methods: You are given a class with synchronized method A

and a normal

method B. If you have two threads in one instance of a program, can they both execute A at the

same time? Can they execute A and B at the same time?
pg 180
SOLUTION

By applying the word synchronized to a method, we ensure that two threads cannot execute synchronized methods on the same object instance at the same time.

So, the answer to the first part really depends. If the two threads have the same instance ofthe object, then
no, they cannot simultaneously execute method A. However, if they have different instances of the object,
then they can.
Conceptually, you can see this by considering locks. A synchronized method applies a “lock”
on all synchro-

nized methods in that instance of the object. This blocks other threads from executing synchronized
methods within that instance.

In the second part, we're asked if thread1 can execute synchronized method A while thread? is
executing non-synchronized method B. Since B is not synchronized, there is nothing to block thread1

from executing A while thread
2 is executing B. This is true regardless of whether thread1 and thread2
have the same instance of the object.
Ultimately, the key concept to remember is that only one synchronized method can be in execution per

instance of that object. Other threads can execute non-synchronized methods on that instance, or they can
execute any method ona different instance of the object.

15.7

FizzBuzz: In the classic problem FizzBuzz, you are told to print the numbers from 1 to n. However,

when the number is divisible by 3, print “Fizz”. When it is divisible by 5, print “Buzz”. When it is

divisible by 3 and 5, print“FizzBuzz” In this problem, you are asked to do this in a multithreaded way.
implement a multithreaded version of FizzBuzz with four threads. One thread checks for divisibility

of3 and prints’Fizz”. Another thread is responsible for divisibility of5 and prints“Buzz’ A third thread
is responsible for divisibility of 3 and 5 and prints “FizzBuzz” A fourth thread does the numbers.
pg 180
SOLUTION

Let's start off with implementing a single threaded version of FizzBuzz.
Single Threaded

Although this problem (in the single threaded version) shouldn't be hard, a lot of candidates overcomplicate it. They look for something “beautiful” that reuses the fact that the divisible by 3 and 5 case (“FizzBuzz”)

seems to resemble the individual cases (“Fizz” and “Buzz’”).

In actuality, the best way to do it, considering readability and efficiency, is just the straightforward way.
1

void fizzbuzz(int n)

458

{

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 15 | Threads and Locks
2

3
4

for (int

i = 1; i <= n; i++) {
if (i%3 = 0 &i%S == @) {
System.out.printiIn(“FizzBuzz”);

5

} else if

6

7

} else if (i % S == @)

8

{

{

System.out.printin(“Buzz”)
;

S,
18

yp aise
System.out.print]n(i);

11

}

}

12
13

(i % 3 == 6)

System.out.printin(“Fizz”)
;

}

The primary thing to be careful of here is the order of the statements. If you put the check for divisibility by
3 before the check for divisibility by 3 and 5, it won't print the right thing.
Multithreaded
To do this multithreaded, we want a structure that looks something like this:

|Fizz ‘Thread

FizzBuzz Thread

if i div by only 3

if i div by 3 &5
print

print Fizz

FizzBuzz

increment i

increment i
repeat until i

repeat

>n

Buzz Thread
ZZ

Lo

.

i

>on

|‘Number Thread _

verter

io

if i div by only 5

ert

if ii not“div by 3 or 5

print Buzz

oo

print i

increment i
repeat until i

until

increment i
>on

repeat

until

i

>

n

while

{
{

return;

Din f

}

if (/* divisibility test */)

{

System.out.printin(/* print something */);

Own
CO

(true)

if (current > max)

WR

bh}

The code for this will look something like:

current++;

}

}

We'll need to add some synchronization in the loop. Otherwise, the value of Current could change

between lines 2 - 4 and lines 5 - 8, and we can inadvertently exceed the intended bounds of the loop. Additionally, incrementing is not thread-safe.

To actually implement this concept, there are many possibilities. One possibility is to have four entirely
separate thread classes that share a reference to the current variable (which can be wrapped in an object).
The loop for each thread is substantially similar. They just have different target values for the divisibility
checks, and different print values.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

459

Solutions to Chapter 15 | Threads and Locks

current
% 3 ==0

true

true

false

false

current % 5 ==0

true

false

true

false

to print

FizzBuzz

Fizz

Buzz

current

For the most part, this can be handled by taking in “target” parameters and the value to print. The output for
the Number thread needs to be overwritten, though, as it’s not a simple, fixed string.

We can implement a FizzBuzzThread class which handles most of this.

ANumberThread class can

extend
FizzBuzzThread
and
override the print method.
dl

Thread[] threads = {new FizzBuzzThread(true,

2

new FizzBuzzThread(true,

false,

n,

"Fizz"),

3

new FizzBuzzThread(false,

true,

n,

"Buzz"),

4

new NumberThread(false,

S

for

(Thread thread

:

threads)

true,

false,

n,

"FizzBuzz"),

n)};

{

thread.start();

&

aij
8

public class FizzBuzzThread extends Thread {

iS

198

private static Object lock = new Object();

11

protected

12

private int max;

13

private boolean div3,

14

private

static

int

current = 1;
div5;

String toPrint;

15

16

public FizzBuzzThread(boolean div3,

1?

boolean divS,

this.div3 = div3;

18

this.div5

19

this.max = max;

20

= div5;

this.toPrint = toPrint;

a),

}

22

23

public void print()

24

{

System.out.println(toPrint)
;

25

}

26

2?

public void run()

28

while (true)

Pes)

{

{

synchronized

30

(lock)

{

if (current > max)

31

{

return;

32

}

38

34

if

35

(current % 5 == @)

36

== div3 &&

== divS)

{

print();

37

current++;

38

}

33

}

48

}

}

41
42

((current % 3 == @)

}

43

&4&

public class NumberThread extends

460

FizzBuzzThread {

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

int max,

String toPrint)

{

Solutions to Chapter 15 | Threads and Locks
public NumberThread(boolean div3, boolean div5, int max) {

as

super(div3,

AS

divS,

max,

null);

}

4?
AS

public void print() {

Ag

System.out.printlin(current)
;

58

Sel

52

}

}

Observe that we need to put the comparison of current and max before the if statement, to ensure the

value will only get printed when current is less than or equal to max.

Alternatively, if we’re working in a language which supports this (Java 8 and many other languages do), we
can pass ina validate method and a print method as parameters.
L

int n = 100;

2

Thread[]

threads

= {

3
4
Ss
6

new FBThread(i
new FBThread(i
new FBThread(i
new FBThread(i

7

for (Thread thread

8

thread.start();

9

-> i % 3 == © &&
-> i % 3 == © &
-> i % 3 !=© &
->
i%3 !=0 8

i1%5
1%5
i %5
i%5

== 0,
!=0,
== 0,
!=0,

i
i
i
i

->
->
->
->

"FizzBuzz", n),
"Fizz", n),
"Buzz", n),
Integer.toString(i), n)};

: threads) {

4}

19

11

public class FBThread extends Thread {

12

private static Object lock = new Object();

13

protected static int current = 1;

14

private int max;

15

private Predicate<Integer> validate;

416

private Function<Integer,

1?

int

x =

String> printer;

1;

18

19

public FBThread(Predicate<Integer> validate,

2e

Function<Integer,

21

this.validate = validate;

22

this.printer = printer;

23

24

this.max

=

String> printer,

int max)

{

max;

}

25

26

public void run() {

2?

while

28

(true)

{

synchronized

29

if

3a

(lock) {

(current

> max)

{

return;

31

}

32

if (validate.test(current)) {

28

System.out.printin(printer.apply(current));

34

current++;3

35

3

36

}

37

38

}

}

39}

There are of course many other ways of implementing this as well.

CrackingTheCoding!nterview.com| 6th Edition

461

16
Solutions to Moderate

16.1

Number Swapper: Write a function to swap a number in place (that is, without temporary variables).
pg 181

SOLUTION

This is a classic interview problem, and it’s a reasonably straightforward one. We'll walk through this using
a, to indicate the original value of a and b, to indicate the original value of b. We'll also use dif
F to indicate
the value ofa, -

b,.

Let’s picture these on a number line for the case wherea

|

|
|

8

b,

>

b.

diff

|
|

ag

First, we briefly set a to diff, which is the right side of the above number line. Then, when we add b and
diff {and store that value in b), we get a,. We now haveb

set

aequaltoa, - diff, which isjustb

-

=

a,anda

=

diff. All that’s left to do is to

a.

The code below implements this.
for a=9,

az=a-b;

//a=9-4=5

b=4

3

b=a+b;

//b=5+45e

4

a=b-a;//a=9-5

|

// Example

2

own

1

We can implement a similar solution with bit manipulation. The benefit of this solution is that it works for
more data types than just integers.
1

//

2

a= a%b;

Example for a
//

3

b= a%b;

// b = 011110 = 101

4

a= ab;

//

a

=

= 101

(in binary)

101%110 =

a = 911%101 =

and

b = 110

911

110

This code works by using XORs. The easiest way to see how this works is by focusing ona

specific bit. If we

can correctly swap two bits, then we know the entire operation works correctly.

Let’s take two bits, x and y, and walk through
1.x=x*

this line by line.

y

This line essentially checks if x and y have different values. it will result in 1 ifand only ifx
2y=x%*y

462

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

!= y.

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
Ory = {@ if originally same,

1 if different} * {original y}

Observe that XORing a bit with 1 always flips the bit, whereas XORing with 0 will never change it.

Therefore, ifwedoy = 1 * {original y}whenx

!= y,theny

willbe flipped and therefore have

X's original value.

Otherwise, ifx == y,thenwedoy = 6 * {original y} andthe value ofy does not change.
Either way, y will be equal to the original value of x.
3.

xX

=x

7 y

Or:x = {@ if originally same,

1 if different} * {original x}

At this point, y is equal to the original value of x. This line is essentially equivalent to the line above it,
but for different variables.

lfwedox = 1 * {original x} when the values are different, x will be flipped.
Ifwedox = @ * {original x} when the values are the same, x will not be changed.
This operation happens for each bit. Since it correctly swaps each bit, it will correctly swap the entire number.

16.2

Word Frequencies: Design a method to find the frequency of occurrences of any given word ina
book. What if we were running this algorithm multiple times?
pg 181

SOLUTION
Let's start with the simple case.

Solution: Single Query

In this case, we simply go through the book, word by word, and count the number of times that a word

appears. This will take O(n) time. We know we can’t do better than that since we must look at every word
in the book.
i

int getFrequency(String[]

2D
3

int

count = 0;

4

for

(String w

2

if

5

String word)

{

:

book)

{

(w.trim().toLowerCase().equals(word))

{

count++3

7
8

t

=
ie

book,

word = word.trim() .toLowerCase() ;

}

return count;
}

We have also converted the string to lowercase and trimmed it. You can discuss with your interviewer if this

is necessary (or even desired).

Solution: Repetitive Queries

If we're doing the operation repeatedly, then we can probably afford to take some time and extra memory

to do pre-processing on the book. We can create a hash table which maps from a word to its frequency. The

frequency of any word can be easily looked up in 0(1) time. The code for this is below.
1
2

HashMap<String,

Integer> setupDictionary(String[]

HashMap<String,

Integer>

book)

{

table =

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

463

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
3

new HashMap<String,

4

for

(String word

:

Integer>();

book)

{

5

word = word.toLowerCase();

6

if (word.trim()

7

if

8

!= “”’)

table.put(word,

9

}

12

table.put(word,

1

{

(!table.containsKey(word))

{

8);

table.get(word) + 1);

}

12

}

13

return table;

14

}

15

16

int getFrequency(HashMap<String,

17

if (table == null

18

word = word.toLowerCase()
;

ae

if (table.containsKey(word)) {

28

table,

String word)

{

return table. get(word) ;

21

}

22
23

Integer>

|| word == null) return -1;

return 0;
}

Note that a problem like this is actually relatively easy. Thus, the interviewer is going to be looking heavily
at how careful you are. Did you check for error conditions?

16.3

Intersection: Given two straight line segments (represented as a start point and an end point),

compute the point of intersection, if any.
pg 181

SOLUTION

We first need to think about what it means for two line segments to intersect.
For two infinite lines to intersect, they only have to have different slopes. if they have the same slope, then
they must be the exact same line (same y-intercept). That is:
slope 1

!= slope

2

OR

slope 1 == slope 2 AND intersect

1 == intersect 2

For two straight lines to intersect, the condition above must be true, plus the point of intersection must be
within the ranges of each line segment.
extended infinite segments intersect
AND

intersection is within line

segment 1

(x and y coordinates)

intersection is within line segment 2

(x and y coordinates)

AND

What if the two segments represent the same infinite line? In this case, we have to ensure that some portion
of their segments overlap. If we order the line segments by their x locations (start is before end, point 1 is
before point 2), then an intersection occurs only if:
Assume:

starti.x <
Then

start2.x && start1.x

intersection occurs
start2 is

between

< endi.x && start2.x < end2.x

if:

start1

and end1

We can now go ahead and implement this algorithm.

464

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
1

Point intersection(Point start1,

2

/* Rearranging these so that,

3

Point end1,

Point start2,

in order of x values:

Point end2)

{

start is before end and

* point 1 is before point 2. This will make some of the later logic simpler.

4

if

(start1.x > end1.x)

swap(start1,

end1);

5

if

(start2.x > end2.x)

swap(start2,

end2);

&

if (starti.x > start2.x) {

7

swap(start1,

Fe)

swap(endi, end2);

*/

start2);

}

©

10

11

/* Compute lines

(including slope and y-intercept).

12

Line line1l

Line(starti,

end1);

13

Line line2 = new Line(start2,

end2);

15

/*

they intercept only if they have the same y

16

*

1?

if

= new

*/

14

18

If the lines are parallel,
intercept

and

start

2

is on

line

(linel.slope == line2.slope)

1.

*/

{

if (linel.yintercept == line2.yintercept &&

19

isBetween(start1,

20

start2,

end1))

{

return start2;

21

}

22

return

23

null;

}

24

25

/* Get

26

double x =

intersection coordinate.

2?

double y = x * linel.slope + linel.yintercept;

28

Point intersection = new Point(x, y);

(line2.yintercept

-

*/
linel.yintercept)

/

(line1.slope

-

line2.slope)
;

QS

30

/* Check if within line

31

if (isBetween(start1,

intersection,

endl) &&

32

isBetween(start2,

intersection,

end2))

33

return intersection;

34

}

35

return

36

segment

range.

*/

{

null;

}

37

38

/* Checks if middle is between start and end.

*/

32

boolean isBetween(double start,

double end)

40

if (start

41

> end)

return end

42

double middle,

{

{

<= middle && middle <= start;

} else {

43

return start

<= middle && middle

<= end;

44}

45

}

46

47

/* Checks

48

boolean isBetween(Point start,

49

return isBetween(start.x,

50
51

if middle is

between start

and

end.

Point middle,

middle.x,

isBetween(start.y, middle.y,

*/

Point end)

{

end.x) &&
end.y);

}

52

52

J¥* Swap coordinates of point one and two.

54

void swap(Point one,

55

double x = one.x;

56

double y = one.y;

Point two)

*/

{

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

465

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
57

one.setLocation(two.x, two.y);

58

two.setLocation(x, y);

So

o}

60

61

public

62

class Line {

public double slope,

yintercept
;

63

64

public

Line(Point start,

Point end) {

65

double deltaY = end.y -

start.y;

66

double deltaX = end.x

start.x;

67

Slope = deltaY / deltaX;

68

yintercept = end.y

69

-

-

// Will be Infinity (not exception) when deltaX = @

slope * end.x;

i

78

71

public class Point {

72

public double x,

73

public Point(double x, double y) {

74

y;

this.x = x;

75

this.y = y;

76

}

77

78

public void

79

setLocation(double x,

double y)

{

this.x = x3

80

this.y = y;

81

}

82

}

For simplicity and compactness (it really makes the code easier to read), we've chosen to make the variables

within Point and Line public.
You can discuss with your interviewer the advantages and disadvantages
of this choice.

16.4

Tic Tac Win: Design an algorithm to figure out if someone has won a game of tic-tac-toe.
pg 181

SOLUTION
At first glance, this problem seems really straightforward. We're just checking a tic-tac-toe board; how hard
could it be? It turns out that the problem is a bit more complex, and there is no single “perfect” answer. The
optimal solution depends on your preferences.
There are a few major design decisions to consider:
1. Will hasWon be called just once or many times (for instance, as part of a tic-tac-toe website)? If the latter

is the case, we may want to add pre-processing time to optimize the runtime of hasWon.
2.

Do we know the last move that was made?

3. Tic-tac-toe is usually on a 3x3 board. Do we want to design for just that, or do we want to implement it
as an NXN solution?
4. In general, how much do we prioritize compactness of code versus speed of execution vs. clarity of
code? Remember: The most efficient code may not always be the best. Your ability to understand and
maintain the code matters, too.

466

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
Solution #1:

if haswon is called many times

There are only 3°, or about 20,000, tic-tac-toe boards (assuming a 3x3 board). Therefore, we can represent

ourtic-tac-toe board as an int, with each digit representing a piece (0 means Empty, 1 means Red, 2 means
Blue). We set up a hash table or array in advance with all possible boards as keys and the value indicating
who has won. Our function then is simply this:
i

Piece hasWon(int board)

z

3

{

return winnerHashtable[ board];

5

To convert a board (represented by a char array) to an int, we can use what is essentially a “base 3” repre-

sentation. Each board is represented as 3°v, + 3'v, + 3’v, + ... + 3°v,,wherev, is a@
empty, a1
i

if it’s

a“blue spot’ and a 2

enum Piece {

Empty,

Red,

if the space is

if it’s a “red spot.”
Blue };

Z

3.

int convertBoardToInt(Piece[][{]

4

int

sum = 0;

5

for

(int

&

i = 0;

for (int j

?

/*

&

*

i <

= @;

can

just

board.length;

j

Each value

in enum has

use that.

{

j++)

{

an integer associated with it.

We

*/

int value =

168

sum = sum * 3 + value;

board[i][j].ordinal();

}

ie

}

13

14

i++)

< board[i].length;

g

di

board) {

return

sum;

}

Now looking up the winner of a board is just a matter of looking it up in a hash table.

Of course, if we need to convert a board into this format every time we want to check for a winner, we
haven't saved ourselves any time compared with the other solutions. But, if we can store the board this way
from the very beginning, then the lookup process will be very efficient.

Solution #2: If we know the last move

If we know the very last move that was made (and we've been checking for a winner up until now), then we
only need to check the row, column, and diagonal that overlaps with this position.
1

2

Piece

hasWon(Piece[][]

if (board.length

board,

int

row,

!= board[@].length)

int

column)

{

return Piece.Empty;

3
4

Piece

6

if

piece

=

board[row][ column];

(piece == Piece.Empty)

return

Piece.Empty;

7

8

if (hasWonRow(board,

9
12

return

row)

||

hasWonColumn(board,

column))

{

piece;

}

11

12

if (row == column && hasWonDiagonal(board,

13

1))

{

return piece;

14}
abe

16

if (row == (board.length

17

48

-

column -

1)

&& hasWonDiagonal(board,

-1))

{

return piece;

}

CrackingTheCodinglnterview.com | 6th Edition

467

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
19
28

return Piece.Empty;

Fay
22

23

boolean hasWonRow(Piece[][]

24

for (int c = 1;

25

if

26

int row)

(board[row][c]

{

c++) {

! = board[row][@])

{

return false;

27

}

28

}

29

38

board,

c < boardfrow].length;

return true;

}

31

32

boolean

33

hasWonColumn(Piece[][]

for (int r = 13

34

if

35

r <

board,

board.length;

(board{r][column]

int column)

r++)

{

{

!= board{@][column])

{

return false;

36

}

3/4

}

38

return true;

39}
46

41

boolean

42

hasWonDiagonal(Piece[][]

board,

43

int column = direction == 1

44

Piece first = board[@][{column];

45

for (int i = 0;

AS

if

{

? @

:

i < board.length;

(boardfrow][{column]

board.length

i++)

!= first)

-

1;

{

{

return false;

47
48

}

4s

row +=

58

column += direction;

St

13

}

52

53

int direction)

int row = 0;

return true;

}

There is actually a way to clean up this code to remove some of the duplicated code. We'll see this approach
in a later function.

Solution #3: Designing for just a 3x3 board

If we really only want to implement a solution for a 3x3 board, the code is relatively short and simple. The
only complex part is trying to be clean and organized, without writing too much duplicated code.
The code below checks each row, column, and diagonal to see if there is a winner.
i

Piece

Z

for

hasWon(Piece[][]

board)

(int

board.length;

i = 0;

i <

3

/* Check Rows */

4

if

5

{

(hasWinner(board[i][@],

i++)

{

board[{i]f{1],

board[i][{2]))

{

board[1]f[i],

board[2][i])) {

return board[{i][@];

6

bi

f

8

/* Check Columns */

9

if

1g

ila

468

}

(hasWinner(board[@][i],

return board[@]j[i];

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
42

}

a3

14

/*

15

if (hasWinner(board[@][@],

Check Diagonal

*/

16

return board[@]|[@];

board[1][1],

board[2][2]))

{

board[1][1],

board[2][@]))

{

}

17
18

ne

if (hasWinner(board[@][2],

28

return board[e][2];

21

}

22
23

24

return

Piece.Empty;

}

25

26

boolean hasWinner(Piece p1,

27

if (pl == Piece.Empty)

28

return

29

Piece p3)

{

false;

}

36

31

Piece p2,

{

return

pl

==

p2 && p2 == p3;

+}

This is an okay solution in that it’s relatively easy to understand what is going on. The problem is that the
values are hard coded. It's easy to accidentally type the wrong indices.

Additionally, it wont be easy to scale this to an NxN board.

Solution #4: Designing for an NxN board

There are a number of ways to implement this on an NxN board.
Nested For-Loops
The most obvious way is through a series of nested for-loops.
i

Piece

2

int

hasWon(Piece[][]

3

if (board[@].length

4

Piece first;

board)

{

size = board.length;

!= size)

return Piece.Empty;

5

6

/* Check rows.

7

for (int i = @;

*/

i <

size;

i++)

{

8

first = board[i][@];

Ss
16

if (first == Piece.Empty) continue;
for (int j = 1; j < size; j++) {
if (board[i][Jj] != first) {
break;

11
12
13

} else if (j == size -

{ //

Last element

}

15
}

16
1?

1)

return first;

14

}

a8

1s

/* Check columns. */

22

for (int i = @;

24

i <

size;

i++)

22

if (first == Piece.Empty)

23

for (int

24

{

first = board[e}Ji];

continue;

} = 1; j < size; j++) {

if (board[j][i]

!= first) {

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

469

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
break;

25

} else if (j == size - 1) { // Last element

26

return first;

27
28

2g

}

30

}

}

31
32

/* Check diagonals.

33

first = board[e][e];

34

if

(first

!= Piece.Empty)

for (int i = 1;

35

if

36

*/

{

i < size;

(board[i][i]

i++)

!= first)

{

{

break;

37

} else if (i == size - 1) { // Last element

38

return first;

39

}

40

41

ii

42

}

43
44

first = board[@][size

45

if (first

46

for

-

1];

!= Piece.Empty)

(int i = 1;

{

i < size;

i++)

if (board[i][size - i -

4?

Ag

break;

4g

} else if

(i == size

-

1]
1)

{

!= first)
{

//

{

Last element

return first;

50
51
52

}

53

ii

ii

54

return Piece.Empty;

55

56
}

This is, to the say the least, pretty ugly. We’re doing nearly the same work each time. We should look for a
way of reusing the code.

Increment and Decrement Function
One way that we can reuse the code better is to just pass in the values to another function that increments/
decrements the rows and columns. The hasWon function now just needs the starting position and the
amount to increment the row and column by.
1

class Check {

2

public int row,

3

private int

column;

4

public Check(int row,

rowIncrement,

columniIncrement;

int column,

5

this.row =

6

this.column = column;

7

this.rowIncrement

8

this.columnIncrement = coll;

2

int rowI,

row;
=

rowI;

}

18

11

public void increment()

12

row +=

13
14

{

rowiIncrement;

column +=

columnincrement
;

}

15

16

470

public

boolean

inBounds(int

size)

Gacking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

{

int coll)

{

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
?

return row >= @ && column >= @ && row < size && column < size;

=>

18
19

}
}

20

21

Piece hasWon(Piece[][]

22

if (board.length

board) {

Lg)

int size = board.length;

! = board[@].length) return Piece.Empty;

2a

25

/* Create list of things to check.

26

ArrayList<Check> instructions = new ArrayList<Check>()
;

27

for (int i = @;

28
2S

i < board.length;

*/

i++)

{

instructions.add(new Check(@,

i,

1,

@));
1));

instructions.add(new Check(i,

®,

@,

38

}

31

instructions.add(new Check(@, @,

1,

1));

32

instructions.add(new Check(@,

size -

1,

1,

-1));

33

34

/* Check them.

35

for (Check instr

*/

:

instructions)

36

Piece winner = hasWon(board,

a7

if (winner

38

{

return winner;

S23

}

40

yk

41
A2

!= Piece.Empty)

{
instr);

return Piece.Empty;
}

43

44

Piece hasWon(Piece[][]

board,

Check instr)

{

45

Piece first = board[instr.row][instr.column]
;

45

while

(instr.inBounds(board.length))

A?

if

(board[instr.row][instr.column]

48

return

}

58

instr.increment();

{

}

52
53

!= first)

Piece. Empty;

4S

1

{

return first;
}

The Check function is essentially operating as an iterator.
lterator

Another way of doing it is, of course, to actually build an iterator.

1

Piece hasWon(Piece[][]
(board.length

board)

2

if

3

int size = board.length;

{

!= board[@].length)

return Piece.Empty;

4

5

ArrayList<PositionIterator> instructions = new ArrayList<PositionIterator>()
;

6

for (int i = @;

i < board.length;

i++)

{

7

instructions.add(new PositionIterator(new Position(@,

i),

1,

@,

size));

&

instructions.add(new PositionIterator(new Position(i,

@),

@,

1,

size));

1,

1,

size));

9

}

18

instructions.add(new PositionIterator(new

41

instructions.add(new

PoSition(®,

PositionIterator(new Position(@,

©),

size - 1),

1,

-1,

size));

12

43

14

for

(Positioniterator iterator

Piece winner = hasWon(board,

:

instructions)

{

iterator):

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

471

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
15

if

16

(winner

!= Piece.Empty)

{

return winner;

17

}

18

}

19

return Piece.Empty;

}

260
a1

22

Piece hasWon(Piece[][]

23

board,

PositionIterator iterator)

{

Position firstPosition = iterator.next();

24

Piece first = board[firstPosition.row][firstPosition.column]
;

25

while

(iterator.hasNext()) {

26

Position position = iterator.next();

27

if

28

(board[position.row][position.column]

!= first)

{

return Piece.Empty;

29

}

30

}

31

return first;

}

32
33}

34

class

PositionIterator implements Iterator<Position>

35

private int

rowIncrement,

36

private Position current;

colIncrement,

{

size;

37

33

public

PositionIterator(Position p,

39

int rowIncrement,

int coiIncrement,

40

this.rowIncrement = rowIncrement
;

Al

this.colIncrement = colIncrement;

A2

this.size = size;

43

current = new Position(p.row -

44

int size)

rowIncrement,

{

p.column -

colIncrement)
;

}

45

46

@Override

47

public

A8

boolean hasNext()

{

return current.row + rowIncrement < size &&

49

current.column + colIncrement < size;

50

}

51

52

@Override

53

public Position next() {

54

current = new Position(current.row + rowIncrement,

55

current.column + colIncrement)
;

56

return current;

57

58

}

}

55)

6@

public class

61

public

62

public Position(int row,

63

column;

int column)

{

this.row = row;

64

this.column = column;

65

66

Position {

int row,

}

}

All of this is potentially overkill, but it’s worth discussing the options with your interviewer. The point ofthis
problem is to assess your understanding of how to code ina clean and maintainable way.

472

Cracking the Coding !nterview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
16.5

Factorial Zeros: Write an algorithm which computes the number of trailing zeros inn factorial.
pg 181

SOLUTION
A simple approach is to compute the factorial, and then count the number of trailing zeros by continu-

ously dividing by ten. The problem with this though is that the bounds of an int would be exceeded very
quickly. To avoid this issue, we can look at this problem mathematically.
Consider a factorial like 191:
191

= 1*2*3*4*5*6*7*8*O*1OF11*12*13*14*15*16*17*18*19

A trailing zero is created with multiples of

10, and multiples of 10 are created with pairs of 5-multiples and

2-multiples,
For example, in 19!, the following terms create the trailing zeros:
ASE

2

oop

SH

ooo

WB

46g

MS

PNG

ogc

Therefore, to count the number of zeros, we only need to count the pairs of multiples of 5 and 2. There will
always be more multiples of 2 than 5, though, so simply counting the number of multiples of 5 is sufficient.
One “gotcha” here is 15 contributes a multiple of 5 (and therefore one trailing zero), while 25 contributes
two (because 25

=

5

*

5).

There are two different ways to write this code.
The first way is to iterate through all the numbers from 2 through n, counting the number of times that 5
goes into each number.
1

/* If the number is a 5 of five,

2

* 25-> 2, etc.

3

int factorsOf5(int

4

int count = @;

5

while

&

For example:

5

-> 1,

i) {

(i %5 == 6)

{

count++3;

7

i /= 5;

8

}

iS
1@

return which power of 5.

*/

return count;

3

ay

412

int

countFactZeros(int

13

int

14

for (int i = 2;

45

count

16

{

i <= num;

i++)

{

+= factorsOf5(i);

}

1?

ig

num)

count = 0;

return

count;

}

This isn’t bad, but we can make it a little more efficient by directly counting the factors of 5. Using this

approach, we would first count the number of multiples of 5 between 1 and n (which is my, then the
number of multiples of 25 ( We ), then 125, and so on.
To count how many multiples of
m are in n, we can just divide n by m.
4

int

countFactZeros(int

2

int

3

if (num < 0) {

4

5

count

return

num)

{

= Q;
-1;

bi

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

473

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
6

for (int

7

i = 5;

num / i > @;

count += num /

8

i *=5)

{

i;

t

5

return

10

count;

}

This problem is a bit of a brainteaser, but it can be approached logically (as shown above). By thinking
through what exactly will contribute a zero, you can come up with a solution. You should be very clear in
your rules upfront so that you can implement it correctly.

16.6

Smallest Difference: Given two arrays of integers, compute the pair of values (one value in each

array) with the smallest (non-negative) difference. Return the difference.
EXAMPLE

Input: {1, 3, 15, 11, 2}, {23, 127, 235, 19, 8}
Output: 3. That is, the pair (11, 8).
pg 181

SOLUTION

Let’s start first with a brute force solution.

Brute Force

The simple brute force way is to just iterate through all pairs, compute the difference, and compare it to the
current minimum difference.
1

int findSmallestDifference(int{]

2

if (array1.length == @

||

array1,

int[]

array2)

array2.length == @)

{

return -1;

3
4

int min = Integer .MAX_VALUE;

5

for

6

(int

i = 0;

i <

for (int j = 0;

a

if

8

arrayi-.length;

(Math.abs(arrayi[i]

-

1e

}

{

< min)

{

- array2[{j]);

}

11

}

12

return min;

13

{

j++)

array2[j])

min = Math.abs(arrayif{i]

9

i++)

j < array2.length;

}

One minor optimization we could perform from here is to return immediately if we find a difference of
zero, since this is the smallest difference possible. However, depending on the input, this might actually be
slower.
This will only be faster if there's a pair with difference zero early in the list of pairs. But to add this optimiza-

tion, we need to execute an additional line of code each time. There's a tradeoff here; it’s faster for some
inputs and slower for others. Given that it adds complexity in reading the code, it may be best to leave it out.

With or without this “optimization,
the algorithm will take O(AB
) time.

Optimal

A more optimal approach is to sort the arrays. Once the arrays are sorted, we can find the minimum difference by iterating through the array.

474

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
Consider the following two arrays:
A: {1,

2,

11,

15}

B:

12,

19,

23,

{4,

127,

235}

Try the following approach:

1. Suppose a pointer a points to the beginning of A and a pointer b points to the beginning of B. The
current difference between a and b is 3. Store this as the min.
2. How can we (potentially) make this difference smaller? Well, the value at b is bigger than the value at a,
so moving b will only make the difference larger. Therefore, we want to move a.

3. Now a points to 2 and b

(still) points to 4. This difference is 2,50 we should update min. Move a, since

it is smaller.

4. Now a points to 11 and b points to 4. Move b.
5.

Now a points to 11 and b points to 12. Update min to 1. Move b.

And
so on.
Lint findSmallestDifference(int[]
2

Arrays.sort(array1)
;

3

Arrays.sort(array2)
;

4

int a

5

int b = @;

array1,

int difference = Integer.MAX_VALUE;

7

while

8

if

(a <

arrayl.length && b <

(Math.abs(arrayl1[a]

-

array2.length)

array2[b])

difference = Math.abs(arrayi[a]

16

array2)

{

= Q;

6

8

int[]

{

< difference)

-

{

array2[b]);

}

ii

12

/*

Move

13

if

(arrayifa]

14

att;

15

} else {

smaller
<

value.

*/

array2[b])

{

b++3

16

1?

i

18
i?

return difference;

20

}

This algorithm takesO(A log A +

B

log

B) timetosort andO(A + B)
time
to
find the minimum

difference. Therefore, the overall runtime isO(A log A + B log B).

16.7.

Number Max: Write a method that finds the maximum of two numbers. You should not use if-else
or any other comparison operator.
pg 181

SOLUTION

A common way of implementing a max function is to look at the sign of a

-

b.Inthis case, we can’t use a

comparison operator on this sign, but we can use multiplication.
Let k equal the sign ofa

-

bsuchthatifa

-

b

>= 9,thenkisi.Else,k = @, Letq be the inverse of k.

We can then implement the code as follows:
i

/*

2

int flip(int

Flips

aitoao@0andae@toa
il */

bit)

{

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

475

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
3

return 1*bit;

ey)
5

6

/* Returns 1 if a is positive,

7

int sign(int a) {

8

and

@ if a is negative */

return flip((a >> 31) & @x1);

yy
19

11

int getMaxNaive(int a,

lye

int k = sign(a - b);

13

int q = flip(k);

14

15

int b)

{

return
a *
k + b * q;

}

This code almost works. It fails, unfortunately, when a
INT_MAX

-

2 andbis-15.Inthis case,a

-

- _ b overflows. Suppose, for example, that a is

b will be greater than INT MAX and will overflow, resulting

in a negative value.
We can implement a solution to this problem by using the same approach. Our goal is to maintain the

condition where k is1 whena
When doesa_

> b.We will need to use more complex logic to accomplish this.

- 6b overflow? it will overflow only when a is positive and b is negative, or the other way

around. It may be difficult to specially detect the overflow condition, but we can detect when a and b have

different signs. Note that if a and b have different signs, then we want k to equal sign(a).

b have different signs:

// if a

> @, then b

< @,

and

k

//

< @,

> 9,

and

k

if a

then b

// so either way,

non

if a and

OP

SO
& Wh hz

The logic looks like:

k = sign(a)

let k = sign(a)
else
let k =

sign(a

-

b)

// overflow is

impossible

The code below implements this, using multiplication instead of if-statements.
1

int getMax(int a,

2

int

c=a

-

int b) {

b;

3

4

int sa = sign(a);

//

if a

>= ®,

then 1

5

int sb = sign(b);

//

if b

>= ®,

then 1 else @

6

int sc

// depends on whether or not

= sign(c);

else @
a

-

b overflows

7

8

/* Goal:

9

*

define a value k which is 1 if a

> b and @ if a

(if a = b,

it doesn’t matter what value k is) */

If a

have different

16

i2

//

12

int

and

b

use_sign_of_a

=

sa

* sb;

have the

same

signs,

then

k

=

sign(a)

i3
14

//

15

int use_sign_of_c =

If a

and

b

flip(sa

sign,

then

k =

sign(a

* sb);

16
1?

int k = use_sign_of_a

18

int q

= flip(k);

//

*

sa + use_sign_of_c

opposite of k

19
28
21

return
a *
k + b * q;
}

476

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

*

sc;

-

b)

< b.

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
Note that for clarity, we split up the code into many different methods and variables. This is certainly not the
most compact or efficient way to write it, but it does make what we're doing much cleaner.

16.8

English Int: Given any integer, print an English phrase that describes the integer (e.g., “One
Thousand,
Two
Hundred Thirty Four’).
pg 182

SOLUTION

This is not an especially challenging problem, but it is a somewhat tedious one. The key is to be organized
in how you approach the problem—and to make sure you have good test cases.

We can think about converting a number fike 19,323,984 as converting each of three 3-digit segments of
the number, and inserting “thousands”
and “millions” in between as appropriate. That is,
convert (19,323,984)

= convert(19) + “ million ” + convert(323) + “ thousand ” +
convert (984)

Coon
Ain
BP WwW Nw

The code below implements
this algorithm.
String[] smalls = {“Zero”,

19

String convert(int num)

“Eight”,

“Nine”,

“Sixteen”,

“Ten”,

“Seventeen”,

String[] tens = {*”, “”,
“Eighty”,

String[]

“One”,

“Two”,

“Eleven”,

“Eighteen”,

“Twenty”,

“Three”,

“Twelve”,

“Four”,

“Five”,

“Six”,

“Thirteen”, “Fourteen”,

“Seven”,

“Fifteen”,

“Nineteen”};

“Thirty”, “Forty”, “Fifty”,

“Sixty”, “Seventy”,

“Ninety”};

bigs = {*”,

“Thousand”, “Million”,

“Billion’”};

String hundred = “Hundred”;
String negative = “Negative”;

age

{

if (num == @) {

i2

return smalls[@];

13

} else if (num < @)

14

{

return negative + “ ” + convert(-1 * num);

as

}

16
17

LinkedList<String>

18

int chunkCount

parts

=

new

LinkedList<String>();

= @;

13

28

while

21

(num > @) {

if (num % 1000 != @) {

22

String chunk = convertChunk(num % 1000) + “ ” + bigs[chunkCount
];

23

parts.addFirst(chunk);

24.

}

25

num /= 1000;

26

chunkCount++;

27

// shift chunk

}

28

29
38

return listToString(parts);
}

31

32
33

String convertChunk(int number) {
LinkedList<String> parts = new LinkedList<String>();

34

35

/* Convert hundreds place */

36

if (number >= 100) {

37

parts.addLast(smallsfnumber /

10@]);

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

477

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
38

parts .addLast (hundred) ;

35

number 4= 106;

48

}

41

42

/* Convert

43

if (number >= 10 && number <= 19) {

44

tens

place

*/

parts .addLast(smalls[number
] );

45

} else if

46

(number >= 20)

{

parts.addLast(tens[number / 10]);

A?

number %= 16;

4g

}

49
50

/*

51

if (number >= 1 && number <= 9) {

52

Convert ones

place

*/

parts .addLast(smalls[number
] );

53

}

54

55

return listToString(parts);

5@

}

S?

/* Convert a linked list of strings to a string,

S8

String listToString(LinkedList<String> parts)

5S

StringBuilder sb = new StringBuilder();

60

while (parts.size()

61

dividing it up with spaces.

*/

{

> 1) {

sb.append(pa
. pop())
rts
;

62

sb.append(“ “);

63

}

64

sb.append(parts .pop());

65

return sb.toString();

66

}

The key ina problem like this is to make sure you consider all the special cases. There are a lot of them.

16.9

Operations: Write methods to implement the multiply, subtract, and divide operations for integers.

The results of all of these are integers. Use only the add operator.
pg 782
SOLUTION

The only operation we have to work with is the add operator. In each of these problems, it’s useful to think
in depth about what these operations really do or how to phrase them in terms of other operations (either
add or operations we've already completed).

Subtraction
How can we phrase subtraction in terms of addition? This one is pretty straightforward. The operation a

b isthe same thing asa

+

(-1)

*

b.However, because we are not allowed to use the * (multiply)

be

/* Flip a positive sign to negative or negative sign to pos.

CO omy CA Ut fe Wf

operator, we must implement a negate function.
int negate(int a)

{

int neg = @;
int newSign = a< @?1:

while

(a

!= 6)

-1;

{

neg += newSign;

a += newSign;

}

478

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

*/

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
g

ie

return neg;

}

11

12

/* Subtract two numbers

by negating b and adding them */

13

int minus(int a,

{

14
15

int b)

return a + negate(b);
}

The negation of the value k is implemented by adding -1 k times. Observe that this will take O(k

) time.

If optimizing is something we value here, we can try to get a to zero faster. (For this explanation, we'll

assume that a is positive.) To do this, we can first reduce a by 1, then 2, then 4, then 8, and so on. We'll call
this value delta. We want a to reach exactly zero. When reducing a by the next del ta would change the

sign of a, we reset delta back to 1 and repeat the process.
For example:
a:

29-28

delta:

-1

26

-2

22

-4

14.

-8

«#13

-1

11

-2

7

-4

6

-1

4

Q

-2

-4

(a

>@);

The code below implements this algorithm.
1

int negate(int a)

2

int neg = 0;

{

3

int

4

int delta = newSign;

newSign=a<@?1:

5

while

(a

!=@)

-1;

{

6

boolean differentSigns =

7

if

8

(a + delta

{

!=

// If delta

is too big,

reset it.

delta = newSign;

$

i

12

neg += delta;

11

a += delta;

12

delta += delta;

13

// Double the delta

}

14
15

(a + delta > @)

!=@0 && differentSigns)

return neg;
}

Figuring out the runtime here takes a bit of calculation.

Observe that reducing a by half takesO(log a) work. Why? For each round of“reduce a by half”, the abso-

lute values of a and delta always add up to the same number.
The values of delta and a will converge at

*% .Sincedelta is being doubled each time, it will take O(log a) steps to reach half of a.

We do O(log a) rounds.

1. Reducinga to 3% takes O(log a) time.

2. Reducing % to Dr takes O(log % ) time.
3. Reducing % to % takes O(log %) time.
.. As so on, forO( log a) rounds.

The runtime therefore isO(log a + log( vi, ) + log( % ) + ...),WwithO(log a) termsin the
expression.

Recall two rules of logs:

>

log(xy) = log x + log y

»

log(’%) = log x - log y.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

479

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
if we apply this to the above expression, we get:

1. O(log a + log( 7%) + log(% ) + ..-)
2. O(log a + (log a - log 2) + (log a - log 4) + (log a - log 8) +...
3. O((log a)*(log a)

-

(log 2 + log 4 + log 8 +

4. O((log a)*(log a)

-

(1 +2 +3 +...

...

+ log a))//O(1log a)terms

+ log a))
//computing
the
values of logs

5. O((log a)*(log a) - (oga)(i 897" ) 1/ apply equation for sum of 1 throughk
6.

O( (log a)*) // drop second term from step
5

Therefore, the runtime isO((log a)?).
This math is considerably more complicated than most people would be able to do (or expected to do) in an

interview. You could make a simplification: You do O(log a) rounds and the longest round takes O( log

a) work. Therefore, as an upper bound, negate takes O((log a)?) time. In this case, the upper bound
happens to be the true time.

There are some faster solutions too. For example, rather than resetting delta to 1 at each round, we could

change delta to its previous value. This would have the effect of delta”counting up” by multiples of two,
and then “counting down’ by multiples of two. The runtime ofthis approach would be

O(log a).However,

this implementation would require a stack, division, or bit shifting—any of which might violate the spirit of
the problem.
You could certainly discuss those implementations with yourinterviewer though.

Multiplication

The connection between addition and multiplication is equally straightforward. To multiply a by b, wejust
add a to itself b times.
1

/* Multiply a

2

int multiply(int a,

Bs

by b

by adding a to

int b)

itself b times

*/

{

if (a < b) {

4

return multiply(b,

5

a); // algorithm is faster if b <a

}

6

int sum = @;

7

for

8

(int i = abs(b);

i > 0;

i = minus(i,

1))

{

sum += a;

g

}

18

if

il
12

<

@)

{

}

13

14

(b

sum = negate(sum)
;
return

sum;

}

is

16

/* Return absolute value */

17

int abs(int a)

18

if

19

{

{

return negate(a);

28

} else {

ai

return a;

22

23

(a < @)

}

}

The one thing we need to be careful of in the above code is to properly handle multiplication of negative
numbers. If b is negative, we need to flip the value of sum. So, what this code really does is:
multiply(a,

480

b)

<--

abs(b)

* a

*

(-1 if

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

b <

8).

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
We also implemented a simple abs function to help.
Division

Of the three operations, division is certainly the hardest.
The good thing is that we can use the multiply,
subtract, and negate methods now to implement divide.

We are trying to compute x where X = he . Or, to put this another way, find x wherea = bx. We've now
changed the problem into one that can be stated with something we know how to do: multiplication.
We could implement this by multiplying b by progressively higher values, until we reach a. That would be

fairly inefficient, particularly given that our implementation of multip]y involves a lot of adding.
Alternatively, we can look at the equation a

=

xb to see that we can compute x by adding b to

itself

repeatedly until we reach a. The number of times we need to do that will equal x.
Of course, a might not be evenly divisible by b, and that's okay. Integer division, which is what we’ve been
asked to implement, is supposed to truncate the result.

The code below implements this algorithm.
1

int divide(int a,

2

if (b == 8)

3

int b) throws java.iang.ArithmeticException {

{

throw new java. lang.ArithmeticException(“ERROR”)
;

4

}

5

int absa = abs(a);

6

int absb = abs(b);

7

8

int product = @;

9

int x = 0;

12

while (product + absb <= absa)

ay

{ /* don’t go past a */

product += absb;

42

X++5

13

hi

14

if ((a <

15
16

17

||

(a> 0 & b> @)) {

} else {

18

return negate(x)
;

19
26

@ && b< @)

return x;

}
}

In tackling this problem, you should be aware ofthe following:
A logical approach of going back to what exactly multiplication and division do comes in handy.
Remember that. All (good) interview problems can be approached in a logical, methodical way!
«

The interviewer is looking for this sort of logical work-your-way-through-it approach.

This is a great problem to demonstrate your ability to write clean code—specifically, to show your ability
to reuse code. For example, if you were writing this solution and didn’t put negate in its own method,
you should move it into its own method once you see that you'll use it multiple times.
*

Be careful about making assumptions while coding. Don’t assume that the numbers are all positive or

that a is bigger than b.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

481

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
16.10 Living People: Given a list of people with their birth and death years, implement a method to
compute the year with the most number of people alive. You may assume that all people were born

between 1900 and 2000 (inclusive). if a person was alive during any portion of that year, they should

be included in that year’s count. For example, Person (birth = 1908, death = 1909) is included in the
counts for both 1908 and 1909.
pg 182

SOLUTION
The first thing we should do is outline what this solution will look like. The interview question hasn't speci-

fied the exact form of input. in a real interview, we could ask the interviewer how the input is structured.
Alternatively, you can explicitly state your (reasonable) assumptions.

Here, we'll need to make our own assumptions. We will assume that we have an array of simple Person
objects:
fy Ul Na

public

class

Person {

public

int

public

int death;

birth;

public

Person(int birthYear,

int deathYear)

{

UT

birth = birthYear;

ow

death = deathYear;

}

i

We could have also given Person a getBirthYear() and getDeathYear() objects. Some would
argue that's better style, but for compactness and clarity, we'll just keep the variables public.
The important thing here is to actually use a Person object. This shows better style than, say, having an

integer array for birth years and an integer array for death years (with an implicit association of births[i]
and deaths[i] being associated with the same person). You don't get a lot of chances to demonstrate
great coding style, so it’s valuable to take the ones you get.

With that in mind, let’s start with a brute force algorithm.
Brute Force

The brute force algorithm falls directly out from the wording of the problem. We need to find the year with
the most number of people alive. Therefore, we go through each year and check how many people are alive
in that year.
1

int maxAliveYear(Person[ ] people,

2

int maxAlive

3

int maxAliveYear = min;

int min,

int max)

{

= Q;

4

S

for

(int year = min;

6

int alive = @;

vA

for (Person person

8

if

year <= max;

:

10

people) {

}

ie

}

12

if

13

482

{

maxAliveYear = year;

15
16

(alive > maxAlive)

maxAlive = alive;

14

{

(person.birth <= year && year <= person.death)
alive++;

9

year++)

}
}

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

{

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
i?

18
19

return maxAliveYear;
+}

Note that we have passed in the values for the min year (1900) and max year (2000). We shouldn't hard code
these values.

The runtime of this isO(RP), where R is the range of years (100 in this case) and P is the number of people.
Slightly Better Brute Force
A slightly better way of doing this is to create an array where we track the number of people born in each
year. Then, we iterate through the list of people and increment the array for each year they are alive.
1

int maxAliveYear(Person[]

people, int min, int max) {

2

int[]

years = createYearMap(people,

3

int best = getMaxIndex(years)
;

4

return best + min;

min,

max);

Das
6

7

/* Add each

8

int[]

5

int[]

1¢

for

1i

person's years to a year map.

createYearMap(Person[]
years

*/

people, int min,

int max)

{

= new int[max - min + 1];

(Person person

:

people) {

incrementRange(years,

12

}

13

return years;

person.birth - min,

person.death

- min);

}
14
45

16

/*

1?

void incrementRange(int[]

18

Increment array for each value between left and right.
for

(int i = left;

values,

i <= right;

int left,
i++)

*/

{

{

values[i]++;

18
28

}

21

3}

23

/* Get index of largest element in array.

24

int getMaxIndex(int[] values)

25

int max = Q;

26

for

ou

(int i = 1;

if

28

(values[i]

i <

*/

{

values.length;

> values[max])

i++)

{

{

max = i;

29

}

}

38

return max;

ae

32

int right)

}

Be careful on the size of the array in line 9. if the range of years is 1900 to 2000 inclusive, then that’s 101
years, not 100. That is why the array has sizemax ~ min + 1.
Let's think about the runtime by breaking this into parts.
+

We create an R-sized array, where R is the min and max years.

-

Then, for P people, we iterate through the years (Y) that the person is alive.

*

Then, we iterate through the R-sized array again.

The total runtime isO(PY +

R).in the worst case, Y is R and we have done no better than we did in the

first algorithm.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

483

Solutions to Chapter 16 { Moderate
More Optimal

Let’s create an example. (In fact, an example is really helpful in almost all problems. ideally, you've already
done this.) Each column below is matched, so that the items correspond to the same person. For compactness, we'll just write the last two digits of the year.
birth:

12

20

10

01

10

23

13

90

83

75

death:

15

98

98

72

98

82

98

98

99

94

It's worth noting that it doesn't really matter whether these years are matched up. Every birth adds a person
and every death removes a person.

Since we don't actually need to match up the births and deaths, let's sort both. A sorted version of the years
might help us solve the problem.
birth:

@1

10

10

12

13

20

23

75

83

90

death:

15

72

82

980

94

98

98

98

98

99

We can try walking through the years.
»

At year 0, no one is alive.

-

Atyear 1, we see one birth.

-

Atyears 2 through 9, nothing happens.

-

Let's skip ahead until year 10, when we have two births. We now have three people alive.

-

At year 15, one person dies. We are now down to two people alive.

»+

Andsoon.

If we walk through the two arrays like this, we can track the number of people alive at each point.
1

int maxAliveYear(Person[]

people,

int min,

int max)

2

int[]

births = getSortedYears(people,

3

int[]

deaths = getSortedYears(people, false);

{

true)
;

4

5

int birthIndex = 9;

6

int deathIndex = @;

7

int

8

int maxAlive = Q;

currentlyAlive = 0;

5

int maxAliveYear = min;

10

a

/* Walk through

12

while

arrays.

*/

(birthIndex < births.length) {

13

if (births[birthIndex]

14

currentlyAlive++;

15

if

16

//

<= deaths[deathIndex])

{

include birth

(currentlyAlive > maxAlive)

{

maxAlive = currentlyAlive;

17

maxAliveYear = births [birthIndex] ;

18

}

18

birthIndex++;

20

} else if

21

// move birth index

(births[birthIndex]

currentlyAlive--;

22

deathIndex++;

23

//

> deaths[deathIndex])

{

include death

// move death index

}

24

}

25

26
27

return maxAliveYear
;
}

28

29

/* Copy birth years or death years

484

(depending on the value of copyBirthYear into

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
36

* integer

31

int{] getSortedYears(Person[]| people, boolean copyBirthYear) {

array, then sort array. */

32

int[] years = new int[people.length];

oy

for (int i = @; i < people.length; i++) {

34

years[i] = copyBirthYear

35

}

36

Arrays.sort(years)
;

an

38

return

? people[i].birth

:

people[i].death;

years;

}

There are some very easy things to mess up here.
On line 13, we need to think carefully about whether this should be a less than (<) or a less than or equals

(<=). The scenario we need to worry about is that you see a birth and death in the same year. (It doesn't
matter whether the birth and death is from the same person.)
When we see a birth and death from the same year, we want to include the birth before we include the

death, so that we count this person as alive for that year. That is why we use a <= on line 13.
We also need to be careful about where we put the updating of maxAlive and maxAliveyYear. It needs

to be after the currentAlive+4, so that it takes into account the updated total. But it needs to be before
birthIndex++, or we won't have the right year.

This algorithm will take O(P log P) time, where P is the number of people.
More Optimal (Maybe)
Can we optimize this further? To optimize this, we'd need to get rid of the sorting step. We're back to dealing
with unsorted values:
birth:

12

20

10

@1

10

23

13

98

83

75

death:

15

9@

98

72

98

82

98

98

99

94

Earlier, we had logic that said that a birth is just adding a person and a death is just subtracting a person.
Therefore, let's represent the data using the logic:
@1:

+1

10:

+1

10:

+1

12:

+1

13:

+1

15:

-1

2@:

+1

23:

+1

72:

-1

75:

+1

82:

-1

83:

+1

90:

+1

9@:

-1

94:

-1

98:

-1

98:

-1

98:

-1

98:

-1

99:

-1

We can create an array of the years, where the value at array[year
] indicates how the population
changed in that year. To create this array, we walk through the list of people and increment when they’re
born and decrement when they die.
Once we have this array, we can walk through each of the years, tracking the current population as we go

(adding the value at array[year
] each time).
This logic is reasonably good, but we should think about it more. Does it really work?
One edge case we should consider is when a person dies the same year that they're born. The increment
and decrement operations will cancel out to give 0 population change. According to the wording of the
problem, this person should be counted as living in that year.

In fact, the “bug” in our algorithm is broader than that. This same issue applies to all people. People who die
in 1908 shouldn't be removed from the population count until 1909.

There’s

a

simple

fix:

instead

of

decrementing

array[deathYear],

we

should

decrement

array[deathYear + 1].
1

int maxAliveYear(Person[]

people,

int min,

int max)

{

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com
| 6th Edition

485

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
2

/* Build population delta array.

3

int[]

4

int maxAliveYear = getMaxAliveYear(populationDeltas)
;

5

*/

populationDeltas = getPopulationDeltas(people, min,

max);

return maxAliveYear + min;

&

fF

?

8

/* Add birth and death years to deltas array.

8

int[]

getPopulationDeltas(Person[]

18

int[]

ad

for (Person person

people,

*/

int min,

int max) {

populationDeltas = new int[max - min + 2];
:

people) {

12

int birth = person.birth

2

populationDeltas[birth]++;

- min;

14

15

int death =

16

populationDeltas[death + 1]--;

17

person.death

-

min;

}

18

return populationDeltas;

19

}

20

21

/* Compute

22

int getMaxAliveYear(int[] deltas) {

running sums and return index with max.

23

int maxAliveYear = @;

24

int maxAlive = 0;

25

int

26

for (int year = 0; year < deltas.length;

currentlyAlive = Q;

27

currentlyAlive += deltas[year];

28

if

29

*/

(currentlyAlive

> maxAlive)

year++)

{

{

maxAliveYear = year;

30

maxAlive = currentlyAlive;

31

}

}

32
33
34

35

return maxAliveyYear
;

}

This algorithm takesO(R + P) time, where R is the range ofyears and P is the number of people. Although
O(R + P) might be fasterthanO(P log P) formany expected inputs, you cannot directly compare the
speeds to say that one is faster than the other.

16.11

Diving Board: You are building a diving board by placing a bunch of planks of wood end-to-end.
There are two types of planks, one of length shorter and one of length longer. You must use
exactly K planks of wood. Write a method to generate all possible lengths for the diving board.
pg 182

SOLUTION

One way to approach this is to think about the choices we make as we're building a diving board. This leads
us toa recursive algorithm.
Recursive Solution
For a recursive solution, we can imagine ourselves building a diving board.
We make K decisions, each time
choosing which plank we will put on next. Once we've put on K planks, we have a complete diving board

and we can add this to the list (assuming we haven't seen this length before).

486

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate

We can follow this logic to write recursive code. Note that we don't need to track the sequence of planks. All
we need to know is the current length and the number of planks remaining.
1

HashSet<Integer> allLengths(int k,

int shorter,

int longer)

2

HashSet<Integer> lengths = new HashSet<Integer>();

3

getAllLengths(k,

4

return lengths
;

9,

shorter,

longer,

{

lengths)
;

5
a)
¥

void getAllLengths(int k,

8

int total,

HashSet<Integer>

9

int shorter,
lengths)

if (k == 0) {

16

lengths.add(total);

il

return;

12

}

13

getAllLengths(k -

1,

total + shorter,

14

getAllLengths(k -

1,

total + longer,

15

int longer,

{

shorter,

shorter,

longer,

longer,

lengths)
;

lengths);

}

We've added each length to a hash set. This will automatically prevent adding duplicates.

This algorithm takes 0( 2*) time, since there are two choices at each recursive call and we recurse to a
depth of K.
Memoization Solution
As in many recursive algorithms (especially those with exponential runtimes), we can optimize this through

memorization (a form of dynamic programming).
Observe that some of the recursive calls will be essentially equivalent. For example, picking plank 1 and
then plank 2 is equivalent to picking plank 2 and then plank 1.

Therefore, if we've seen this (total,

plank

count) pair before then we stop this recursive path. We

can do this usinga HashSet witha key of (total,

plank count).

Many candidates will make a mistake here. Rather than stopping only when they've seen
(total,

plank

count), they'll stop whenever they've seen just total before. This is

incorrect. Seeing two planks of length 1 is not the same thing as one plank of length 2, because
there are different numbers of planks remaining. in memoization problems, be very careful
about what you choose for your key.

The code for this approach is very similar to the earlier approach.
1

HashSet<Integer> allLengths(int k,

2

int shorter,

int longer)

3

HashSet<String> visited = new HashSet<String>();

4

getAllLengths(k,

5

return lengths;

&

{

HashSet<Integer> lengths = new HashSet<Integer>();
9,

shorter,

longer,

lengths,

visited)
;

4}

7
8

void getAllLengths(int k,

1e

int total,

int shorter,

HashSet<Integer> lengths,

9

if

11

(k == 6)

int longer,

HashSet<String> visited)

{

{

lengths.add(total)
;

12

return;

13

}

14

String key = k +"

" + total;

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

487

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
15

if (visited.contains(key))

{

return;

16

17

}

18

getAllLengths(k - 1, total + shorter,

19

getAllLengths(k - 1, total + longer, shorter,

28
21

shorter, longer,

lengths,

visited) ;

longer, lengths, visited);

visited.add
(key) ;
}

For simplicity, we've set the key to be a string representation of total and the current plank count. Some
people may argue it’s better to use a data structure to represent this pair. There are benefits to this, but there

are drawbacks as well. It’s worth discussing this tradeoff with your interviewer.
The runtime ofthis algorithm is a bit tricky to figure out.
One way we can think about the runtime is by understanding that we're basically filling in a table of SUMS

x PLANK COUNTS. The biggest possible sum is K

*

Therefore, the runtime will be no worse than O(K? *

LONGER and the biggest possible plank count is K.
LONGER).

Of course, a bunch of those sums will never actually be reached. How many unique sums can we get?
Observe that any path with the same number of each type of planks will have the same sum. Since we can
have at most K planks of each type, there are only K different sums we can make. Therefore, the table is

really KxK, and the runtime is O(K?).
Optimal Solution

If you re-read the prior paragraph, you might notice something interesting. There are only K distinct sums
we can get. isn't that the whole point of the problem—to find all possible sums?
We don't actually need to go through all arrangements of planks. We just need to go through all unique sets
of K planks (sets, not orders!). There are only K ways of picking K planks if we only have two possible types:
{0 of type A, K of type B}, {1 of type A, K-1 of type B}, {2 of type A, K-2 of type B}, ...
This can be done in just a simple for loop. At each “sequence”, we just compute the sum.
1

HashSet<Integer> allLengths(int k,

2

HashSet<Integer>

3

for (int nShorter = 6;

nShorter <= k;

4

int nLonger = k - nShorter;

5

int length = nShorter *

6

lengths
.add
(length) ;

7

int longer)

{

nShorter++)

shorter + nLonger *

{

longer;

}

8

9

int shorter,

lengths = new HashSet<Integer>();

return

lengths;

}

We've used aHashSet here for consistency with the prior solutions.
This isn't really necessary though, since
we shouldn't get any duplicates. We could instead use an ArrayList. If we do this, though, wejust need to
handle an edge case where the two types of planks are the same length. In this case, we would just return
an ArrayList of size 1.

488

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
16.12 XML Encoding: Since XML is very verbose, you are given a way of encoding it where each tag gets
mapped to a pre-defined integer value. The language/grammar is as follows:
Element

--> Tag Attributes END Children END

Attribute

-->

Tag Value

END

-->

@

Tag

--> some predefined mapping to int

Value

--> string value

For example, the following XML might be converted into the compressed string below (assuming a

mapping of family
->

->

1,

person

->2,

firstName

->

3,

lastName

-> 4,

state

5).

<family

lastName="McDowell"

state="CA">

<person firstName="Gayle">Some Message</person>
</family>

Becomes:
1 4 McDowell

5 CA @ 2 3 Gayle

@ Some Message @ 0

Write code to print the encoded version of an XML element (passed in Element and Attribute

objects).
pg 182

SOLUTION

Since we know the element will be passed in as an Element and Attribute, our code is reasonably

simple. We can implement this by applying a tree-like approach.

We repeatedly call encode() on parts of the XML structure, handling the code in slightly different ways
depending on the type of the XML element.
i

void encode(Element root,

StringBuilder sb)

2

encode(root.getNameCode(),

3

for

(Attribute a

encode(a,

sb);

&

encode(“@”,

sb);

7

if

4

}

5

(root.value

root.attributes)

{

!= null && root.value

encode(root.value,

8

!= “”’)

{

sb);

} else {

8

18

for (Element e

in

encode(e,

12

t

13

:

root.children) {

sb);

I

encode(“6”,

i4
45

:

{

sb);

sb);

}

16
V7?

void encode(String v,

{

sb.append(“ “);

13

28

StringBuilder sb)

sb.append(v)
;

16

}

22
22

void encode(Attribute attr,

23

encode(attr.getTagCode(),

24.

encode(attr.value,

25

26

StringBuilder sb) {
sb);

sb);

}

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com| 6th Edition

489

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
27

String encodeToString(Element root) {

28

StringBuilder sb = new StringBuilder
() ;

29

encode(root,

30

return sb.toString();

31

sb);

}

Observe in line 17, the use ofthe very simple encode method for
a string. This is somewhat unnecessary; all
it does is insert the string and a space following it. However, using this method is a nice touch as it ensures
that every element will be inserted with a space surrounding it. Otherwise, it might be easy to break the
encoding by forgetting to append the empty string.

16.13

Bisect Squares: Given two squares on a two-dimensional plane, find a Jine that would cut these two
squares in half. Assume that the top and the bottom sides of the square run parallel! to the x-axis.
pg 182

SOLUTION

Before we start, we should think about what exactly this problem means by a “line.” Is a line defined by a
slope and a y-intercept? Or by any two points on the line? Or, should the line be really a line segment, which
starts and ends at the edges of the squares?
We will assume, since it makes the problem a bit more interesting, that we mean the third option: that the
line should end at the edges of the squares. In an interview situation, you should discuss this with your
interviewer.

This line that cuts two squares in half must connect the two middles. We can easily calculate the slope,

knowing that slope= 7% . Once we calculate the slope using the two middles, we can use the same
equation to calculate the start and end points of the line segment.

in the below code, we will assume the origin (@,
4

©) is in the upper left-hand corner.

public class Square {

2

Be\e

3

public Point middle() {

4

return new Point((this.left + this.right)

/

2.0,

5

(this.top + this.bottom)

/

2.0);

6

}

7

*

/* Return the point where the line segment connecting mid1 and mid2 intercepts

9

* the edge of square 1.

16

* out

ia

until the

edge

That

is,

draw a

of the square.

*

line from mid2 to mid1,

and continue

/

public Point extend(Point mid1, Point mid2, double size)

12

/*

Find what direction the line mid2

-> mid1 goes.

13

double xdir = mid1.x <

mid2.x

?

-1

:

1;

14

double ydir = midl.y <

mid2.y

?

-1:

1;

{

* /

15

16

/* If mid1 and mid2 have the same x value,

17

18

* throw a divide by @ exception.

if (midi.x == mid2.x)

19

20

then the slope calculation will

So, we compute this

return new Point(mid1.x,

midl.y + ydir * size /

2.0);

}

21

22

double slope = (midl.y - mid2.y) /

23

double x1 = @;

24

double y1 = 9;

25

490

specially.

{

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

(mid1.x - mid2.x);

* /

it

Solutions toChapter 16 | Moderate

BS,
30

(x1

-

x2).

“shallow” (<1) the end of the line segment will hit size / 2 units away

*

from the middle on the x axis.
== 1)

(>1) then the end of the line segment will
If the slope is

* /

{

x1 = midi.x + xdir *

Be

yi = midl.y + ydir * size /

size / 2.0;
2.0;

"

32

} else if (Math.abs(slope) < 1) { // shallow slope

34
35

x1 = midl.x + xdir * size / 2.0;

36

y1

= slope

*

(x1

-

mid1.x)

+ midi.y;

} else { // steep slope

By

yi = midi.y + ydir * size / 2.0;

38

x1 =

ety

(yl

- mid1.y)

/ slope + mid1.x;

}

AS

return new Point(x1, y1);

Al

42

/

hit size / 2 units away from the middie on the y axis.

if (Math.abs(slope)

31

- y2)

*

28

if the slope is “steep”

(y1

Note:

*

27

*

/* Calculate slope using the equation

26

}

43

Ad

public

Line cut(Square other)

{

/* Calculate where a line between each middle would collide with the edges of

45

46

* the squares

*

/

Point p1 = extend(this.middle(),

other.middle(),

this.size);

4g

Point p2 = extend(this.middle(),

other.middle(),

-1 * this.size);

43

Point p3 = extend(other.middle(),

this.middle(), other.size);

58

Point p4 = extend(other.middle(),

this.middle(),

"

"

4?

-1 * other.size);

pile

/* Of above points,

52

find start

* top most aS a tie breaker)

53

* a tie

54

breaker.

55

Point start = p1;

56

Point end

57

Point[]

58

for

*

and end of lines.

Start is

and end is farthest right

farthest

left

(with

(with bottom most as

/

= p1;

points = {p2,

(int i = 90;

i <

p3,

p4};

points.length;

i++)

{

if (points[i].x < start.x ||

Be

(points[i].x == start.x && points[i].y < start.y)) {

62

start = points[i];

62

} else if (points[i].x > end.x ||
(pointsfi].x == end.x && points[i].y > end.y)) {

62.
63

end = points[i];

54

}

65
66

67

return new Line(start,

68

6

end);

}

The main goal of this problem is to see how careful you are about coding. !t’s easy to glance over the special

cases (e.g., the two squares having the same middle). You should make a list of these special cases before
you start the problem and make sure to handle them appropriately. This is a question that requires careful
and thorough testing.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

491

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
16.14 Best Line: Given a two-dimensional graph with points on it, find a line which passes the most
number of points.
pg 183

SOLUTION

This solution seems quite straightforward at first. And it is—sort of.

Wejust’draw”
an infinite line (that is, not a line segment) between every two points and, using a hash table,
track which line is the most common. This will take

O(N’) time, since there are N’ line segments.

We will represent a line as a slope and y-intercept (as opposed to a pair of points), which allows us to easily
check to see if the line from (x1,

y1) to (x2,

y2) is equivalent to the line from (x3,

y3) to (x4,

y4).
To find the most common line then, we just iterate through all lines segments, using a hash table to count
the number of times we've seen each line. Easy enough!

However, there's one little complication. We're defining two lines to be equal if the lines have the same slope
and y-intercept. We are then, furthermore, hashing the lines based on these values (specifically, based on
the slope). The problem is that floating point numbers cannot always be represented accurately in binary.

We resolve this by checking if two floating point numbers are within an epSilon value of each other.
What does this mean for our hash table? It means that two lines with “equal” slopes may not be hashed to

the same value.
To solve this, we will round the slope down to the next epsilon and use this FlooredSlope
as the hash key. Then, to retrieve all lines that are potentially equal, we will search the hash table at three

spots: FlooredSlope, flooredSlope - epsilon,andflooredSlope + epsilon. This will ensure
that we've checked out all lines that might be equal.
won
Dm
hw nN

/* Find line that goes through most number of points.

Line findBestLine(GraphPoint[]
HashMapList<Double,

Line>

*/

points) {

linesBySlope = getListOfLines(points)
;

return getBestLine(linesBySlope)
;

}
/* Add each pair of points as a
HashMapList<Double,

HashMapList<Double,

128

line to the list.

*/

Line> getListOfLines(GraphPoint[]
Line>

points)

for (int i = 0; i < points.length; i++) {

11

for (int

j = i+ 1;

j

< points.length; j++) {

12

Line line = new Line(points[ij,

13

double key = Line.floorToNearestEpsilon(line.slope)
;

14

linesBySlope.put(key,

15
}

17

return linesBySlope;

18

points[j]);

line);

}

16

}

19

Return the

28

/*

21

Line getBestLine(HashMapList<Double,

line with the most equivalent other

22

Line bestLine = null;

23

int bestCount = 9;

Line>

Set<Double> slopes = linesBySlope.keySet();

26

27

492

for (double slope :

slopes)

{

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

lines.

*/

linesBySlope) {

24

25

{

linesBySlope = new HashMapList<Double,

Line>();

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
28

ArrayList<Line> lines = linesBySlope.get(slope)
;

23

for (Line line

:

lines)

{

33

/* count lines that are equivalent to current line */

es

int count = countEquivalentLines(linesBySlope,

line);

ay

33

/* if better than current line,

34

if (count > bestCount) {

BS

bestLine =

36

bestCount = count;

replace it */

line;

37

bestLine.Print();

38

System. out.printin(bestCount)
;

35

}

48

}

ad.

}

42

return

43

bestLine;

}

4

45

/* Check hashmap for lines that are equivalent. Note that we need to check one

46

* epsilon

47

* equivalent if they're within an epsilon of each other.

48

above

and

below the actual

slope since we're defining two lines

int countEquivalentLines(HashMapList<Double,

4g

double

as

*/

Line> linesBySlope,

Line line)

{

key = Line. floorToNearestEpsilon(line.slope)
;

Se

int count = countEquivalentLines(linesBySlope.get(key),

Si

count += countEquivalentLines(linesBySlope.get(key -

Line.epsilon),

line);
line);

52

count += countEquivalentLines(linesBySlope.get(key + Line.epsilon),

line);

53

return

count;

S44
}
5

56

/* Count lines within an

57
58

array of lines which are

"equivalent"

(slope and

* y-intercept are within an epsilon value) to a given line */
int countEquivalentLines(ArrayList<Line> lines,

58

if

(lines

== null)

61

int count = Q;

G2

for

63

(Line parallelLine

if

64

Line line)

{

return @;

:

lines)

{

(parallelLine.isEquivalent(line))

{

count-++
;

65

}

66

}

oF

return

count;

68

}

7@

public class

Line {

7i

public static double epsilon =

72

public double

73

private

slope,

boolean

.0001;

intercept;

infinite_slope = false;

Fa

75

public Line(GraphPoint p,

vis.

GraphPoint q)

77

slope

73

intercept = p.y -

=

(p.y

-

q.y)

/

(p.x

slope

-

q.x);

* p.x;

//

//

compute slope

y intercept from y=mx+b

} else {

73
82

infinite_slope = true;

81

intercept = p.x;

$2

83

{

if (Math.abs(p.x - q.x) > epsilon) { // if x’s are different

// x-intercept,

since slope

is

infinite

}

}

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

493

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
B4

35

public static double floorToNearestEpsilon(double d)

86

int r = (int)

87

return ((double)

88

{

(d / epsilon);
r)

* epsilon;

}

89
90

public boolean isEquivalent(double a,

91

return (Math.abs(a - b) < epsilon);

double b)

{

}

92
os
94

public boolean isEquivalent(Object o)

95

Line 1 =

96

if

(isEquivalent(1.slope,

97

{

(Line) o;
slope) && isEquivalent(l.intercept,

(infinite_slope == l.infinite_slope))

98

intercept) &&

{

return true;

99

}

100

return false;

101

}s

182 }
103

104 /* HashMapList<String,

Integer>

105

See appendix for

~* ArrayList<Integer>.

is

a HashMap that maps from Strings to

implementation.

*/

We need to be careful about the calculation of the slope of a line. The line might be completely vertical,
which means that it doesn’t have a y-intercept and its slope is infinite. We can keep track ofthis in a separate

flag (Infinite slope). We need to check this condition in the equals method.

16.15 Master Mind: The Game of Master Mind is played as follows:
The computer has four slots, and each slot will contain a ball that is red (R), yellow (Y), green (G) or
blue (B). For example, the computer might have RGGB (Slot #1 is red, Slots #2 and #3 are green, Slot
#4 is blue).

You, the user, are trying to guess the solution. You might, for example, guess YRGB.
When you guess the correct color for the correct slot, you get a “hit.” If you guess a color that exists
but is in the wrong slot, you get a “pseudo-hit.’ Note that a slot that is a hit can never count as a
pseudo-hit.

For example, if the actual solution is RGBY and you guess GGRR, you have one hit and one pseudohit.

Write a method that, given a guess and a solution, returns the number of hits and pseudo-hits.
pg 183

SOLUTION

This problem is straightforward, but it’s surprisingly easy to make little mistakes. You should check your
code extremely thoroughly, on a variety of test cases.
We'll implement this code by first creating a frequency array which stores how many times each character

occurs in Solution, excluding times when the slot is a“hit.’ Then, we iterate through guess to count the
number of pseudo-hits.

The code below implements this algorithm.
i

class Result {

2

public

494

int hits = Q;

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
3

public int pseudoHits = @;

4

5

public String toString() {

6

return “(“ + hits + “, “ + pseudoHits + “)”;

7

8

3

}

9

i@

int code(char c)

fe

switch (c) {

12

case

‘8B’:

return 0;

13

case ‘G’:

14
as

return

16

case ‘R’:

17

1;

return 2;

‘Y’:

case

18

13

return 3;

default:

20
ai

return

22

23

{

-1;

}

3}

24

25

int MAX_COLORS = 4;

2&

27

Result

28

if

estimate(String guess,

(guess.length()

String solution)

!= solution.length())

{

return null;

23

320

Result res = new Result();

31

int[] frequencies = new int[MAX_COLORS];

32

33

/* Compute hits and build frequency table */

34

for

23)

(int i = @;

i < guess.length();

i++)

{

if (guess.charAt(i) == solution.charAt(i)) {
res .hhits++;

3¢

37

} else {

38

/* Only increment the frequency table

op

* if it’s

not a hit.

If it’s a hit,

49

int code = code(solution.charAt(i));

44

frequencies
[code ]++;

42

(which will be used for pseudo-hits)
the slot has already been “used.” */

}
}

43
44

4S

/* Compute

46

for

pseudo-hits

(int i = 0;

*/

i < guess.length();

47

int code = code(guess.charAt(i));

48

if

(code

>= @ && frequencies[code]

43

guess.charAt(i)

50

res.pseudoHits++;

51

{

> @ &&

!= solution.charAt(i))

{

frequencies[code]--;

52

}

53

}

54

55

i++)

return

res;

}

Note that the easier the algorithm fora problem is, the more important it is to write clean and correct code.

In this case, we've pulled code(char c) into its own method, and we've created a Result class to hold
the result, rather than just printing it.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

495

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
16.16 Sub Sort: Given an array of integers, write a method to find indices m and n such that if you sorted

elements m throughn, the entire array would be sorted. Minimizen

- m (that is, find the smallest

such sequence).
EXAMPLE

Input:1,

2,

4,

Output: (3,

9)

7,

16,

11,

7,

12,

6,

7,

16,

18,

19

pg 183

SOLUTION

Before we begin, let's make sure we understand what our answer will look like. If we're looking for just two
indices, this indicates that some middle section of the array will be sorted, with the start and end of the
array already being in order.
Now, let's approach this problem by looking at an example.
1,

2,

4,

7,

10,

11,

8,

12,

5,

6,

16,

18,

19

Our first thought might be to just find the longest increasing subsequence at the beginning and the longest
increasing subsequence at the end.
1,

2,

middle: 8,

left:

12

right:

6,

5,

4,

16,

7,

10,

18,

11

19

These subsequences are easy to generate. Wejust start from the left and the right sides, and work our way
inward. When an element is out of order, then we have found the end of our increasing/decreasing subsequence.

In orderto solve our problem, though, we would need to be able to sort the middle part of the array and, by
doing just that, get all the elements in the array in order. Specifically, the following would have to be true:
/* all items on left are smaller than all items in middle */
min(middle)

> end(left)

/* all items in middle are smaller than all items in right */
max(middle)

<

start(right)

Or, in other words, for all elements:
left < middle < right

In fact, this condition will never be met. The middle section is, by definition, the elements that were out
of order. That is, it is always the case that left.end

>

middle.start and middle.end

>

right.

start. Thus, you cannot sort the middle to make the entire array sorted.

But, what we can do is shrink the left and right subsequences until the earlier conditions are met. We need
the left part to be smaller than all the elements in the middle and right side, and the right part to be bigger
than all the elements on the left and right side.

Let min equalmin(middle

and

right

side) and max equalmax(middle

and

left

side).

Observe that since the right and left sides are already in sorted order, we only actually need to check their
start or end point.

On the left side, we start with the end of the subsequence (value 11, at element 5) and move to the left. The

value min equals 5. Once we find an element i such that array[i]
the middle and have that part of the array appear in order.

496

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

< min, we know that we could sort

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate

start of the
Then, we do a similar thing on the right side. The value max equals 12. So, we begin with the 16. When
We compare the max of 12 to 6, then 7, then
right subsequence (value 6) and move to the right.

reach 16, we know that no elements smaller than 12 could be after it (since it’s an increasing subsequence).
Thus, the middle of the array could now be sorted to make the entire array sorted.
The following code implements this algorithm.
1

void findUnsortedSequence(int[] array) {

2

// Find lett

3

int end_left = findEndOfLeftSubsequence(array)
;

subsequence

4

if (end_left >= array.length - 1) return;

// Already sorted

5

©

// find right subsequence

?

int start_right = findStartOfRightSubsequence(array)
;

8

9

// get min and max

12

int max_index = end_left;

J

int min_index = start_right; // min of right side

12

for (int i = end_left + 1;

13

// max of left side
i < start_right;

i++)

{

if (array[i] < array[min_index]) min_index = i;

44

if (array[i]

iS

> array[max_index])

max_index = i;

}

18

1?

// slide left until less than array[min_index]

18

int left_index = shrinkLeft(array,

min_index,

end_left);

19

20

// slide right until greater than array[max_index]

Oa

int right_index = shrinkRight(array, max_index,

start_right);

22

23

System.out.printin(left_index + “ “© + right_index)
;

a
25

26

int findEndOfLeftSubsequence(int[]

27

for

2&8

(int i = 1;

i <

array) {

array.length;

i++)

{

if (array[i] < array[i - 1]) return i - 1;

29

3@

return array.length

-

1;

31}
32

33

int findStartOfRightSubsequence(int[] array) {

34

for (int i = array.length - 2;

35

if (array[i]

36

}

37

return 0;

> array[i + 1])

i >= @;

i--) {

return i + 1;

3g}
35

49

int shrinkLeft(int[]

array,

int min_index,

Al

int comp = array[min_index];

42

for

43

(int

if

44

t

45

return 6;

46

i = start

(array[i]

-

1;

<= comp)

i

>= 0;

i--)

int start) {

{

return i + 1;

}

47

48

int shrinkRight(int[]

array,

int max_index,

4g

int comp = array[max_index];

52

for (int i = start;

i < array.length;

i++)

int start)

{

{

CrackingTheCoding|nterview.com | 6th Edition

497

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
if (array(il >= comp) return i - 1;

54

}

52
53

54

return array.length -

1;

}

Note the use of other methods in this solution. Although we could have jammed

it all into one method, it

would have made the code a lot harder to understand, maintain, and test. In your interview coding, you
should prioritize these aspects.

16.17 Contiguous Sequence: You are given an array of integers (both positive and negative). Find the

contiguous sequence with the largest sum. Return the sum.
EXAMPLE
Input:2,

-8,

3,

-2,

4,

-10

Output:5 (i.e.,

{3,

-2, 4})
pg 183

SOLUTION

This is a challenging problem, but an extremely common one. Let’s approach this by looking at an example:
2

3

-8

-1

2

4

-2

3

If we think about our array as having alternating sequences of positive and negative numbers, we can
observe that we would never include only part of a negative subsequence or part of a positive sequence.
Why would we? Including part ofa negative subsequence would make things unnecessarily negative, and
we should just instead not include that negative sequence at all. Likewise, including only part ofa positive
subsequence would be strange, since the sum would be even bigger if we included the whole thing.
For the purposes of coming up with our algorithm, we can think about our array as being a sequence of
alternating negative and positive numbers. Each number corresponds to the sum ofa subsequence of positive numbers ofa subsequence of negative numbers. For the array above, our new reduced array would be:
5

-9

6

-2

3

This doesn't give away a great algorithm immediately, but it does help us to better understand what we're
working with.

Consider the array above. Would it ever make sense to have {5, -9}inasubsequence? No. These numbers
sum to -4, so we're better off not including either number, or possibly just having the sequence be just

{5}).
When would we want negative numbers included in a subsequence? Onlyif it allows us to join two positive

subsequences, each of which have a sum greater than the negative value.
We can approach this in a step-wise manner, starting with the first element in the array.
When we look at 5, this is the biggest sum we've seen so far. We set maxSum to 5, and sum to 5, Then, we
consider -9. If we added it to sum, we'd get a negative value. There’s no sense in extending the subsequence

from 5 to -9 (which “reduces“to a sequence of just -4), so wejust reset the value of sum.
Now, we consider 6. This subsequence is greater than 5, so we update both maxSum and sum.
Next, we look at -2. Adding this to 6 will set sum to 4. Since this is still a “value add” (when adjoined to

another, bigger sequence), we might want {6,
maxSum.

498

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

-2} in our max subsequence. We'll update sum, but not

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
Finally, we look at 3. Adding 3 to sum (4) gives us 7, so we update maxSum.
The max subsequence is therefore the sequence {6,

-2,

3}.

When we look at this in the fully expanded array, our logic is identical.
The code below impsements this

algorithm.
i

int getMaxSum(int[]

2

int maxsum = 0;

3
4

int sum = @;
for (int i = @; i < a.length;

5

sum += a[i];

§

if (maxsum <

?

sum)

i++) {

{

maxsum = sum;

g

} else if (sum < 0) {

9

sum = Q;

12

}

12

}

12

13

a) {

return maxsum;

«+}

if the array is all negative numbers, what is the correct behavior? Consider this simple array: {-3,

-10,

-5}. You could make a good argument that the maximum sum is either:
1. -3 (if you assume the subsequence can’t be empty)
2. 0 (the subsequence has length 0)
3. MINIMUM_INT (essentially, the error case).
We went with option #2 (maxSum =

Q), but there’s no “correct” answer. This is a great thing to discuss with

your interviewer; it will show how detail-oriented you are.

16.18 Pattern Matching:
You are given two strings, pattern and value. The pattern string consists of
just the letters aand b, describing a pattern within a string. For example,
the string catcatgocatgo

matches the pattern aabab (where cat is a and go is b). It also matches patterns like a, ab, and b.
Write a method to determine if value matches pattern.
pg 183

SOLUTION

As always, we can start with a simple brute force approach.
Brute Force

A brute force algorithm is to just try all possible values for a and b and then check if this works.
We could do this by iterating through all substrings for a and all possible substrings for b. There are O(n?)

substrings in a string of length n, so this will actually take O(n*) time. But then, for each value of a and b,
we need to build the new string ofthis length and compare it for equality. This building/comparison step

takes O(n) time, giving an overall runtime of O(n*).
1

for each possible substring a

2

for each possible substring b

5

Candidate = buildFromPattern(pattern,

4

if candidate equals

5

a,

b)

value

return true

Ouch.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

499

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
One easy optimization is to notice that if the pattern starts with ‘a’ then the a string must start at the
beginning of value. {Otherwise, theb string must start at the beginning of value.) Therefore, there aren't

O(n?) possible values for a; there are O(n).
The algorithm then is to check if the pattern starts with a or b. If it starts with b, we can “invert”
it (flipping
each‘a’ to a’b’ and each’‘b'to an‘a’) so that it starts with’a‘’ Then, iterate through all possible substrings for

a (each of which must begin at index 0) and all possible substrings for b (each of which must begin at some
character after the end of a). As before, we then compare the string for this pattern with the original string.

This algorithm now takes O(n‘) time.
There’s one more minor (optional) optimization we can make. We don’t actually need to do this inversion” if

the string starts with ‘b’ instead of’a’ The buildFromPattern method can take care of this. We can think
about the first character in the pattern as the”main’ item and the other character as the alternate character.

The buildFromPattern method can build the appropriate string based on whether‘a’ is the main character or alternate character.
1

boolean doesMatch(String pattern,

2

if

(pattern. length()

== @)

String value)

{

return value.length()

== @;

3

4

int size = value.length();

5

for

(int mainSize = @;

mainSize < size;

6

String main = value.substring(@,

q

for

8

(int

for

altStart

= mainSize;

(int altEnd = altStart;

mainSize++)

altStart
altEnd

<= size; altStart++)

<= size;

9

String alt = value.substring(altStart,

10

String cand

thse

if (cand.equals(value)) {

12

= buildFromPattern(pattern,

altEnd++)

{

{

altEnd);
main,

alt);

return true;

13

}

14

}

15

}

16

}

17

18

{

mainSize)
;

return

false;

}

1S

28

String buildFromPattern(String pattern,

21

StringBuffer sb = new StringBuffer()
;

22

char first = pattern.charAt(@)
;

23

for

24

(char c

if

25

:

pattern.toCharArray())

(c == first)

String alt)

{

{

{

sb.append(main)
;

26

} else {

27

sb.append(alt)
;

28

}

29

}

36

return sb.toString();

31

String main,

}

We should look for a more optimal algorithm.

Optimized

Let’s think through our current algorithm. Searching through all values for the main string is fairly fast (it

takes O(n)

500

time). It’s the alternate string that is so slow: 0(n*) time. We should study how to optimize that.

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
Suppose we have a pattern like aabab and we're comparing it to the string Catcatgocatgo. Once weve
picked “cat”
as the value for a to try, then the a strings are going to take up nine characters (three a strings
with length three each). Therefore, the b strings must take up the remaining four characters, with each

having length two. Moreover, we actually know exactly where they must occur, too. If a is cat, and the
pattern is aabab, then b must be go.
In other words, once we've picked a, we've picked b too. There’s no need to iterate. Gathering some basic

stats on pattern (number of as, number of bs, first occurrence of each) and iterating through values for a
(or whichever the main string is) will be sufficient.
1

boolean doesMatch(String pattern,
if (pattern.length() == @)

2

String value)

{

return value.length()

== 9;

3

4

char mainChar = pattern.charAt(@)
;

5

char altChar = mainChar ==

6

int size = value.length();

‘a'

?

'b'

:

‘a';

?

&

int countOfMain = countOf(pattern,

mainChar);

@)

int countOfAlt = pattern.length()

- countOfMain;

18

int firstAlt = pattern.indexOf(altChar)
;

ag

int maxMainSize = size / countOfMain;

12

43

for

(int mainSize = 0;

mainSize <= maxMainSize;

14

int

remainingLength = size -

BS

String first = value.substring(@,

16

if (countOfAlt == @

||

mainSize

{

mainSize)
;

remainingLength % countOfAlt

1?

int altIndex = firstAlt * mainSize;

is

int altSize = countOfAlt == @

19

String second = countOfAlt == @ ?

28

mainSize++)

* countOfMain;

? @

:

== 0) {

remaininglLength / countOfAlt;

""

value.substring(altIndex,

altSize + altIndex)
;

ad

22

String cand = buildFromPattern(pattern,

23

if

24

return

25

first,

second)
;

{

true;

}

26

}

Ey

}

28

29

(cand.equals(value))

return

false;

}

38

341

int countOf(String pattern,

char c)

{

32

int count = @;

a2)

for (int i = 0; i < pattern.length();

34

if

i++) {

{

count++3

35
36

}

37

¥yg

38

339

(pattern.charAt(i) == c)

return count;

}

40

41

String buildFromPattern(...)

{

/* same as

before */

}

This algorithm takes O(n’), since we iterate through O(n) possibilities for the main string and do O(n)
work to build and compare the strings.
Observe that we've also cut down the possibilities for the main string that we try. If there are three instances

of the main string, then its length cannot be any more than one third of value.

CrackingTheCoding!nterview.com | 6th Edition

501

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
Optimized (Alternate)

If you don't like the work ofbuilding a string only to compare it (and then destroy it), we can eliminate this.
Instead, we can iterate through the values for a and b as before. But this time, to check if the string matches

the pattern (given those values for a and b), we walk through va Lue, comparing each substring to the first
instance of the a and b strings.
mb

boolean doesMatch(String pattern,
== @)

String value)

{

return value.length()

== Q;

fm

char mainChar = pattern.charAt(@)
;

sO CO NE OU

Ww

if (pattern.length()

char altChar = mainChar ==

12

int firstAlt = pattern.indexOf(altChar)
;

11

int maxMainSize = size / countOfMain;

‘a'

?

"b'

:

‘a’;

int size = value.length();
int countOfMain = countOf{pattern, mainChar)
;
int countOfAlt = pattern.length()

-

countOfMain;

12

13

for (int mainSize = @;

mainSize <= maxMainSize;

14

int remainingLength = size

15

if (countOfAlt == @ ||

- mainSize

int altIndex = firstAlt * mainSize;

1?

int altSize = countOfAlt == @

18

if (matches(pattern, value, mainSize,

? @

:

remainingLength /

altSize,

countOfAlt;

altIndex))

{

return true;

20

}

21

}

22

}

23

24

{

remainingLength % countOfAlt == @) {

16

is

mainSize++)

* countOfMain;

return false;

}

25

26

/* Iterates through pattern and value.

At each

character within pattern,

checks if

27

* this is the main string or the alternate string. Then checks if the next set of

28

* characters in value match the original set of those characters

28

* or the alternate.

3@

boolean matches(String pattern,

31

int firstAlt)

heh

int stringIndex = mainSize;

33

for

(int i = 1;

String value,

i < pattern.length();

int size = pattern.charAt(i)

35

int offset = pattern.charAt(i)

36

if

(!isEqual(value,

int altSize,

offset,

i++)

{

== pattern.charAt(@)

? mainSize

== pattern.charAt(@)

stringIndex,

size))

? @

:

:

altSize;

firstAlt;

{

return false;

33

}

39

stringIndex += size;

49

}

41

42

int mainSize,

{

34

By

(either the main

*/

return true;

}

43

44

/* Checks

45

* size.

46

if two substrings

boolean isEqual(String s1,

47

48
A3

502

for

are equal,

starting at given offsets and continuing to

*/

(int i = 0;

i <

size;

int offset1,
i++)

if (si.charAt(offseti + i)

int offset2,

int size)

{

!= si.charAt(offset2 + i))

return false;

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

{

{

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
58

}
J

Si
So

se)

return

true;

fj

This algorithm will still take O(n?) time, but the benefit is that it can short circuit when matches fail early
(which they usually will). The previous algorithm must go through all the work to build the string before it
can learn that it has failed.

16.19 Pond Sizes: You have an integer matrix representing a plot of land, where the value at that location
represents the height above sea level. A value of zero indicates water. A pond is a region of water
connected vertically, horizontally, or diagonally. The size of the pond is the total number of
connected water cells. Write a method to compute the sizes of all ponds in the matrix.
EXAMPLE
Input:
g21¢90

J

a

1101

g1oe1

Output: 2, 4, 1 (in any order)
pg 184

SOLUTION

The first thing we can try is just walking through the array. It’s easy enough to find water: when it’s a zero,
that’s water.
Given a water cell, how can we compute the amount of water nearby? If the cell is not adjacent to any zero

cells, then the size of this pond is 1. If it is, then we need to add in the adjacent cells, plus any water cells
adjacent to those cells. We need to, of course, be careful to not recount any cells. We can do this with a modified breadth-first or depth-first search. Once we visit a cell, we permanently mark it as visited.
For each cell, we need to check eight adjacent cells. We could do this by writing in lines to check up, down,

left, right, and each of the four diagonal cells. It’s even easier, though, to do this with a loop.
i

ArrayList<Integer>

computePondSizes(int[][]

2

ArrayList<Integer>

3

for

4

(int r = 0;
if

6

c++)

{ // Optional.

int size = computeSize(land,

7

r,

{

Would

return anyway.

c)5;

pondSizes.add(size);

8
3

}
}

1@

}

11

12

== 8)

{

r++) {

c < land[r].length;

(land[r][c]

land)

= new ArrayList<Integer>();

r < land.length;

for (int c = 0;

5

pondSizes

return

pondSizes;

}

13

14

int computeSize(int[][]
/*

is

if (row < @ || col < @ ||

1?

bounds or

land[row][col]

int row,

int col) {

already visited.

*/

row >= land.length

|| col >= land[row].length | |

!= @) { // visited or not water

return @;

18

ae

If out of

land,

15

}

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

503

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
20

int size = 1;

21

land[row][col]

= -1;

22

for

-1;

23

(int dr =

// Mark visited

dr <= 1;

for (int dc = -1;

24

dr++)

size += computeSize(land,

7's

{

dc <= 1; dc++)

{

row + dr,

col + dc);

}

26

}

27

return size;

28

}

In this case, we marked a

(land[row][col]

cell as visited by setting its value to -1. This allows us to check, in one line

!= 9), if the value is valid dry land or visited. In either case, the value will be zero.

You might also notice that the for loop iterates through nine cells, not eight. It includes the current cell.

We could add a line in there to not recurse ifdr

==

@anddc

== @. This really doesn’t save us much.

We'll execute this if-statement in eight cells unnecessarily,
just to avoid one recursive call. The recursive call
returns immediately since the cell is marked as visited.
If you don't like modifying the input matrix, you can create a secondary visited matrix.
1

ArrayList<Integer> computePondSizes(int[][]

land) {

2

boolean[][]

3

ArrayList<Integer> pondSizes = new ArrayList<Integer>();

4

for

5

visited = new boolean[land.length][land[9].length];

(int r = 0;

r <

for (int c = @;

land.length;

6

int size = computeSize(land,

7

if (size > 6)

8

r++)

{

c < land[r].length;

c++)

{

visited,

r,

c);

{

pondSizes.add(size)
;

3

}

10

}

41

}

12

13

return pondSizes;

}

14

15

int computeSize(int[][]

16

/*

17

if (row < @ ||

18

col < @ ||

visited[row][col]

19

return

20

land, boolean[][] visited,

If out of bounds or already visited.

||

row >= land.length
land[row][col]

int col)

{

||

col >= land[row].length ||

!= 6) {

@;

~—i}sk

21

int size = 1;

22

visited[row][col]

= true;

23

for (int dr = -1;

dr <= 1;

24

for

mS

(int dc = -1;

dr++)

dc <= 13;

{

dc++)

size += computeSize(land,

26

{

visited,

row + dr,

col + dc);

}

27

}

28

return size;

29

int row,

*/

+}

Both implementations are O(WH), where W is the width of the matrix and H is the height.

Note: Many people say “O(N)” or “O(N’)%, as though N has some inherent meaning. It doesn't.
Suppose this were a square matrix. You could describe the runtime as O(N) or O(N?). Both are
correct, depending on what you mean by N. The runtime is O(N), where N is the length of one

side. Or, if N is the number of cells, it is O(N). Be careful by what you mean by N. In fact, it might
be safer to just not use N at all when there’s any ambiguity as to what it could mean.

504

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
Some people will miscompute the runtime to be O(N‘), reasoning that the computeSi
ze method could
take as long as O(N?) time and you might call it as much as O(N?) times (and apparently assuming an NXN
matrix, too). While those are both basically correct statements, you can’t just multiply them together. That’s
because as a single call to computeSize gets more expensive, the number of times it is called goes down.
For example, suppose the very first call to computeSize goes through the entire matrix. That might take

O(N2) time, but then we never call computeSize again.
Another way to compute this is to think about how many times each cell is “touched” by either call. Each cell
will be touched once by the computePondSizes function. Additionally, a cell might be touched once by
each of its adjacent cells. This is still a constant number of touches per cell. Therefore, the overall! runtime is

O(N’) on an NxN matrix or, more generally, O( WH).

16.20 T9:On old cell phones, users typed on a numeric keypad and the phone would provide a list of words
that matched these numbers. Each digit mapped to a set of 0 - 4 letters. Implement an algorithm
to return a list of matching words, given a sequence of digits. You are provided a list of valid words
(provided in whatever data structure you'd like). The mapping is shown in the diagram below:
1

2

3

abc

def

4

5

6

ghi

jkl

mno

7

8

9

pqrs

tuv

wxyZ

0

EXAMPLE

Input:

8733

Output:

tree,

used
pg 184

SOLUTION
We could approach this in a couple of ways. Let’s start with a brute force algorithm.
Brute Force

Imagine how you would solve the problem if you had to do it by hand. You'd probably try every possible
value for each digit with all other possible values.
This is exactly what we do algorithmically. We take the first digit and run through all the characters that map

to that digit. For each character, we add it to

aprefix variable and recurse, passing the prefix downward.

Once we run out of characters, we print prefix (which now contains the full word) if the string is a valid
word.

We will assume the list of words is passed in as a HashSet.

AHashSet operates similarly to a hash table,

but rather than offering key->value lookups, it can tell us ifa word is contained in the set in O(1) time.
1

ArrayList<String>

getValidT9Words (String number,

2

ArrayList<String>

3

getValidwords(number,

A

return

>

HashSet<String> wordList)

f{

results = new ArrayList<String>();
0,

“”,

wordList,

results)
;

results;

+

6

CrackingTheCodingItnterview.com | 6th Edition

505

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
7

void getValidWords(String number,

8

int index,

String prefix,

HashSet<String> wordSet, ArrayList<String> results)

9

/*

10

if

11

If

it’s

a

(index ==

complete word,

print

number.length()

it.

{

*/

&& wordSet.contains(prefix))

{

results.add(prefix)
;

12

return;

13

}

14

15

/* Get

46

char digit = number.charAt (index) ;

characters that match this

digit.

ly

char[]

is

/* Go through all remaining options.

26

if (letters

letters = getT9Chars(digit)
;

!= null)

*/

{

21
22.

for (char letter : letters) {
getValidwWords(number, index + 1,

23

}

24

*/

prefix + letter,

results);

}

25

}

27

/* Return array of characters that map to this digit.

28

char[] getT9Chars(char digit)

22

*/

{

if (!Character.isDigit(digit))

38

{

return null;

31

—}sk

32

int dig = Character.getNumericValue(digit)

33

return t9Letters[dig];

34

wordSet,

- Character.getNumericValue(
‘Q’ ) ;

}

35

3@

/* Mapping of digits to letters.

37

char{J][] t9Letters = {null,

38

{‘g’,

hy? 5

Tes

39

{‘t’,

fu’,

‘v7},

‘(i

Cee

{‘w’,

*/

null, {‘a’,
B59

*1’},
fy’,

‘b’,

{‘m’,

‘c’}, {‘d’,

‘n’,

‘o’},

Se’,

{‘p’,

‘F7},

‘aq’,

cre

‘s’},

*27}

49};
This algorithm runs in O( 4") time, where N is the length of the string. This is because we recursively branch
four times for each call to getValidwords, and we recurse until a call stack depth of N.
This is very, very slow on large strings.
Optimized
Let's return to thinking about how you would do this, if you were doing it by hand. Imagine the example of

33835676368 (which corresponds to deve lopment). If you were doing this by hand, | bet you‘d skip over
solutions that start with ft [3383], as no valid words start with those characters.
Ideally, we'd like our program to make the same sort of optimization: stop recursing down paths which will

obviously fail. Specifically, if there are no words in the dictionary that start with prefix, stop recursing.
The Trie data structure (see “Tries (Prefix Trees)” on page 105) can do this for us. Whenever we reach a
string which is not a valid prefix, we exit.
1

ArrayList<String> getValidT9Words(String number,

Trie trie)

2

ArrayList<String> results = new ArrayList<String>();

3

getValidWords(number,

4

return results;

>

@,

“”,

trie.getRoot(),

}

&

506

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

results);

{

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
7?

void getValidwords(String number, int index, String prefix, TrieNode trieNode,

8

ArrayList<String>

3

/*

12

if (index == number.length()) {

11

If

it’s

if

12

a

complete word,

results)

print

(trieNode.terminates())

{ //

{

it.

*/

Is

complete word

results.add(prefix)
;

13

}

44

return;

15

}

16

1

/* Get characters that match this digit */

18

char digit = number.charAt(index)
;

19

char[]

letters = getT9Chars(digit)
;

26

21

/* Go through all remaining options.

22

if

23

(letters

!=null)

for (char letter

*/

{

:

letters)

{

24

TrieNode child = trieNode.getChild(letter)
;

25

/* If there are words that start with prefix + letter,

26

* then continue

2

if

28

recursing.

!= null)

*/

{

getValidWords(number,

29

index + 1,

prefix + letter,

child,

results);

}

38

}

31
32,

(child

}
|

It’s difficult to describe the runtime of this algorithm since it depends on what the language looks like.
However, this “short-circuiting” will make it run much, much faster in practice.
Most Optimal

Believe cr not, we can actually make it run even faster. We just need to doa little bit of preprocessing. That’s
not a big deal though. We were doing that to build the trie anyway.
This problem is asking us to list all the words represented by a particular number in T9. Instead of trying to

do this “on the fly” (and going through a lot of possibilities, many of which won't actually work), we can just
do this in advance.
Our algorithm now has a few steps:
Pre-Computation:

1. Create a hash table that maps from a sequence of digits to a list of strings.
2. Go through each word in the dictionary and convert it to its
T9 representation (e.g., APPLE

Store each of these in the above hash table. For example, 8733 would map to {used,

-> 27753).

tree}.

Word Lookup:
1. Just look up the entry in the hash table and return the list.
That's it!
21.

)©6/* WORD LOOKUP */

2

ArrayList<String>

getValidT9Words(String numbers,

3
4

HashMapList<String,

String> dictionary)

{

return dictionary.get(numbers)
;

om

5

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

507

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
7

/* PRECOMPUTATION */

8

S$

/* Create a hash table that maps from a number to all words that have this

160

11

* numerical

representation.

*/

HashMapList<String, String> initializeDictionary(String[] words)

12

/* Create a

13

HashMap<Character,

{

hash table that maps from a letter to the digit */

Character> letterToNumberMap = createLetterToNumberMap(
) ;

14

15

/* Create word

16

HashMapList<String,

->

17

for

(String word

number map.

:

*/

String> wordsToNumbers = new HashMapList<String,
words)

18

String numbers = convertToT9(word,

13

words ToNumbers.put(numbers,

28

}

21

return wordsToNumbers
;

22

String>();

{

letterToNumberMap)
;

word);

}

23

24

/* Convert mapping of number->letters

25

HashMap<Character, Character> createLetterToNumberMap() {

26

HashMap<Character,

27
28

for (int i = @;

23

char[]

38

if (letters

34

for

272

*/

letterToNumberMap =

Character>();

i < t9Letters.length;

i++) {

letters = t9Letters[i];

!= null)

(char letter

{
:

letters)

{

char c = Character.forDigit(i, 10);

33

letterToNumberMap.put(letter,

34

c);

}

35

}

}

36
37
38

Character>

new HashMap<Character,

into letter->number.

return

letterToNumberMap
;

}

3)

4@

/* Convert from a string to its T9 representation.

41

String convertToT9(String word, HashMap<Character, Character> letterToNumberMap) {

42

StringBuilder sb = new StringBuilder();

43

for (char c

44

if

45

: word.toCharArray())

*/

{

(letterToNumberMap.containskey(c))

{

char digit = letterToNumberMap.get(c)
;

a6

sb.append(digit)
;

4?

}

48

}

49

return sb.toString();

56

}

51

52

char[][]

t9Letters = /* Same as before */

53

54

/* HashMapList<String,

55

* ArrayList<Integer>.

Integer> is a HashMap that maps from Strings to
See appendix for implementation.

*/

Getting the wordsthat
map to this number willrun in O(N) time, where N is the number of digits.
TheO(N)
comes in during the hash table look up (we need to convert the number to a hash table). If you know the

words are never longer than a certain max size, then you could also describe the runtime as O(1).
Note that it’s easy to think, “Oh, linear—that’s not that fast.’ But it depends what it’s linear on. Linear on the
length of the word is extremely fast. Linear on the length of the dictionary is not so fast.

508

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
16.21

Sum Swap: Given two arrays of integers, find a pair of values (one value from each array) that you
can swap to give the two arrays the same sum.
EXAMPLE

Input: {4, 1, 2, 1, 1, 2}and{3, 6, 3, 3}
Output: {2,

3}
pg 184

SOLUTION
We should start by trying to understand what exactly we're looking for.
We have two arrays and their sums. Although we likely aren‘t given their sums upfront, we can just act like
we are for now. After all, computing the sum is an O(N) operation and we know we can't beat O(N) anyway.

Computing the sum, therefore, won't impact the runtime.
When we move a (positive) value a from array A to array B, then the sum of A drops by a and the sum of B
increases by a.
We are looking for two values, a and b, such that:
sumA

-

a

+

b

=

sumB

-

bt+a

Doing some quick math:
2a

a

-

-

2b =

sumA

-

b = (sumA -

sumB

sumB)

/ 2

Therefore, we're looking for two values that have a specific target difference: (sumA - sumB) / 2.

Observe that because that the target must be an integer (after all, you can't swap two integers to get a noninteger difference), we can conclude that the difference between the sums must be even to have a valid pair.
Brute Force

A brute force algorithm is simple enough. We just iterate through the arrays and check all pairs of values.
We can either do this the “naive” way (compare the new sums) or by looking for a pair with that difference.
Naive approach:
1

int[]

findSwapValues(int[]

2

int sum1 = sum(array1)
;

3

int sum2 = sum(array2)
;

5

for

6

(int one

for

:

(int two

array1)

:

array2)

{

{

array2)
=

int[]

sumi1

{

?

int

8

int newSum2 = sum2 - two + one;

%

if (newSum1 == newSum2) {

128

newSum1

array1,

-

one + two;

int[] values = {one, two};

an

return values;

12

}

13

}

14

}

a5
16

Ba

return

null;

3

Target approach:

1

int[] findSwapValues(int[]

array1,

int[]

array2) {

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

509

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
2

Integer target = getTarget(array1,

3

if (target == null)

array2);

return null;

4

5

for (int one

6

:

array1)

for (int two :

7

{

array2) {

if (one - two == target) {

8

int[] values = {one, two};

g

return values;

18

}

11

}

12

}

1S)

14

is

return null;

}

16

17

Integer getTarget(int[] array1, int[] array2)

18

int sum1 = sum(array1);

19

int sum2 = sum(array2)
;

{

20

21

if ((sum1 - sum2) % 2

22

return

23

(sum1 -

sum2)

!= 6) return null;
/ 2;

}

We've used an Integer (a boxed data type) as the return value for getTarget. This allows us to distinguish an “error” case.

This algorithm takes O(AB
) time.
Optimal Solution

This problem reduces to finding a pair of values that have a particular difference. With that in mind, let's

revisit what the brute force does.
In the brute force, we're looping through A and then, for each element, looking for an element in B which
gives us the “right” difference. If the value in Ais 5 and the target is 3, then we must be looking for the value
2. That's the only value that could fulfill the goal.
That is, rather than writing one

-

two

==

target, we could have written two

How can we more quickly find an element in B that equals one

-

==

one

-

target.

target?

We can do this very quickly with a hash table. We just throw all the elements in B into a hash table. Then,

iterate through A and look for the appropriate element in B.
NO

int[]

Integer target = getTarget(array1,

Ja ue

heed

int[] findSwapValues(int[] array1,
if (target == null)

array2)

{

array2);

return null;

return findDifference(array1,

array2,

target);

OOO ~E Oy Gi

}
/* Find a pair of values with a

specific difference.

int[] findDifference(int[] array1,

int[] array2,

HashSet<Integer> contents2 = getContents(array2)
;
int two = one

12

if (contents2.contains(two))

int[] values = fone, two};

510

- target;

{

return values;
Mw

bE

RR

ph
(<5

for (int one : array1) {

ui
Bs WW

198

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

*/

int target)

{

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
a

16
47

ie

return null;

aS
28

21

/* Put contents of array into hash set.

22

HashSet<Integer> getContents(int[] array) {

*/

le

HashSet<Integer> set = new HashSet<Integer>();

24.

for

(int a:

array)

{

set .add(a);

25
26

t

27

return set;

23

This solution will take O( A+B) time. This is the Best Conceivable Runtime (BCR), since we have to at least
touch every element in the two arrays.
Alternate Solution

If the arrays are sorted, we can iterate through them to find an appropriate pair. This will require less space.
1

int[] findSwapValues(int[]

array1,

int[] array2) {

2

Integer target = getTarget(arrayl1,

3

if (target == null) return null;

4

return findDifference(array1,

array2);

array2,

target);

5
*
7

int[] finddifference(int[]

8

int a = @;

g

int b = @;

array1,

int[]

array2,

int target)

{

19
ii

while

(a <

arrayl.length && b <

array2.length)

42

int difference = arrayi[a]

3)

/* Compare difference to target.

{

- array2[b];
If difference is too small, then make it

14

* bigger by moving a to a bigger value.

i5

* smaller by moving b to a bigger value. If it's just right,

16

* pair.

{

18

int[] values = {arrayl[a],

1S)

return values;
att;

22

} else {

23

{

b++;

24
25

array2[b]};

} else if (difference < target)

22

21

return this

*/

if (difference == target)

4?

If it is too big, then make it

}

}

25
27

return null;

}
28

This algorithm takes O(A + B) time but requires the arrays to be sorted. If the arrays aren't sorted, we can
still apply this algorithm but we'd have to sort the arrays first. The overall runtime would beO(A log A +

B log B).

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com| 6th Edition

511

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
16.22 Langton’s Ant: An ant is sitting on an infinite grid of white and black squares. It initially faces right.
At each step, it does the following:
(1) Ata white square, flip the color of the square, turn 90 degrees right (clockwise), and move forward
one unit.

(2) At a black square, flip the color of the square, turn 90 degrees left (counter-clockwise), and move
forward one unit.
Write a program to simulate the first K moves that the ant makes and print the final board as a grid.

Note that you are not provided with the data structure to represent the grid. This is something you
must design yourself. The only input to your method is K. You should print the final grid and return

nothing. The method signature might be something like void printKMoves(int K).
pg 185
SOLUTION

At first glance, this problem seems very straightforward: create a grid, remember the ant’s position and
orientation, flip the cells, turn, and move. The interesting part comes in how to handle an infinite grid.
Solution #1: Fixed Array

Technically, since we're only running the first K moves, we do have a max size for the grid. The ant cannot
move more than K moves in either direction. if we create a grid that has width 2K and height 2K (and place
the ant at the center), we know it will be big enough.
The problem with this is that it’s not very extensible. If you run K moves and then want to run another K
moves, you might be out of luck.

Additionally, this solution wastes a good amount of space. The max might be K moves in a particular dimension, but the ant is probably going in circles a bit. You probably won't need all this space.
Solution #2: Resizable Array

One thought is to use a resizable array, such as Java‘s ArrayList class. This allows us to grow an array as

necessary, while still offering 0(1) amortized insertion.
The problem is that our grid needs to grow in two dimensions, but the ArrayList is only a single array.

Additionally, we need to grow “backward” into negative values.
The ArrayList class doesn't support this.
However, we take a similar approach by building our own resizable grid. Each time the ant hits an edge, we
double the size ofthe grid in that dimension.
What about the negative expansions? While conceptually we can talk about something being at negative
positions, we cannot actually access array indices with negative values.

One way we can handle this is to create “fake indices.” Let us treat the ant as being at coordinates (-3,
-1@), but track some sort of offset or delta to translate these coordinates into array indices.
This is actually unnecessary, though. The ant’s location does not need to be publicly exposed or consistent
(unless, of course, indicated by the interviewer). When the ant travels into negative coordinates, we can
double the size of the array and just move the ant and all cells into the positive coordinates. Essentially, we

are relabeling all the indices.
This relabeling will not impact the big O time since we have to create a new matrix anyway.
1

public class Grid {

2

private boolean[][]

512

grid;

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate

private Ant ant = new Ant();
public Grid()

{

grid = new boolean[1][1];

}
/* Copy old values into new array, with an offset/shift applied to the row and
* columns.

*

/

private void copyWithShift(boolean[][] oldGrid,
int shiftRow,
for

(int r = 0;

for

r < oldGrid.length;

(int c = 9;

boolean[][]

int shiftColumn)

r++)

newGrid,

{

{

c < oldGrid[9].length;

c++)

newGrid[r + shiftRow][c + shiftColumn]

{

= oldGrid[r][c];

}
}

}

/* Ensure that the given position will fit on the array.

* the size of the matrix,
*

position so that it's

copy the old values over,

in a positive range.

private void ensureFit(Position position)

*

If necessary,

double

and adjust the ant's

/

{

int shiftRow = 9;
int

shiftColumn = 9;

/* Calculate new number of rows.
int numRows

if

*

/

= grid.length;

(position.row < @)

{

shiftRow = numRows
;
numRows

*

=2;

} else if (position.row >= numRows)

32

numRows

*

{

=2;

}
/* Calculate new number of columns. *

/

int numColumns = grid[@].length;
if

(position.column < @)

{

shiftColumn = numColumns;
numColumns

*

=2;

} else if (position.column >= numColumns)
numColumns

*

{

=2;

}
/* Grow array,

if necessary.

if (numRows ! = grid.length

Shift ant's position too.

*

/

|| numColumns != grid[@].length) {

boolean[
][{] newGrid = new boolean[numRows |[numColumns ];

CopyWithShift(grid,

newGrid,

shiftRow,

shiftColumn);

ant.adjustPosition(shiftRow, shiftColumn)
;
grid = newGrid;

}

}

/* Flip color of cells.
55

* /

private void flip(Position position)
int

{

row = position.row;

int column = position.column;

grid[row][column]

= grid[row][column]

? false

: true;

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com| 6th Edition

513

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
59

}

60

61

/* Move ant. */

62

public void move()

{

63

ant.turn(grid[ant.position.row][ant.position.column])
;

64

flip(ant.position)
;

65

ant.move()
;

66

ensureFit(ant.position);

67

// grow

}

68

69

/* Print board.

7@

public String toString()

*/

{

71

StringBuilder sb = new StringBuilder
() ;

72

for (int r = 0;

73

r < grid.length;

for (int c = 0;

74

r++)

{

c < grid[®@].length;

c++)

{

if (r == ant.position.row && c == ant.position.column)

75

{

sb.append(ant.orientation)
;

76

} else if

7?

(grid[r][c])

{

sb.append("X");

78

} else {

79

sb.append("_");

8e

}

81

}

82

sb.append("\n");

33

84

sb.append("Ant:

&5

return sb.toString();

86

" + ant.orientation + ".

\n");

}

87
}

We pulled the Ant code into a separate class. The nice thing about this is that if we need to have multiple
ants for some reason, we can easily extend the code to support this.
2

public class Ant {

2

public Position position = new Position(®,

3

public Orientation orientation = Orientation.right;

@);

4

5

public void turn(boolean clockwise)

6

{

orientation = orientation. getTurn(clockwise) ;

?

ii

8

3

public void move()

10

if

11

{

(orientation == Orientation.left)

{

position. column--;

12

} else if

iL}

(orientation

== Orientation.right)

{

position. column++ ;

14

} else if

15

(orientation == Orientation.up)

{

position.row-;

16

} else if (orientation == Orientation.down)

LG

{

position. row++;

18

}

19

}

28

21

public void adjustPosition(int shiftRow,

42

position.row += shiftRow;

23

position.column +=

24

25

shiftcolumn;

}

}

514

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

int shiftColumn)

{

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
Orientation is also its own enum, with a few useful functions.
ay

public enum Orientation {
left,

2

up,

right,

down;

3

4

public Orientation getTurn(boolean clockwise)

5

{

if (this == left) {

&

return clockwise

7

? up

:

down;

} else if (this == up) {

8

return clockwise

S

} else if

18

return clockwise

11

} else {

12

right

:

left;

{

? down

:

up;

?

:

right;

// down

return

13

?

(this == right)

clockwise

left

}

14

}

15

16

@Override

1?

public String toString()

18

if

18%

return “\u2190”;

28

} else if

21

(this == up)

{

return “\u2191”;

22

}

23

else

if

(this == right)

{

return “\u2192”;

24

}

25

else {

//

down

return “\u2193”;

26

}

27
28

{

(this == left) {

}
}

We've also put Position into its own simple class.
We could just as easily track the row and column separately.

i

CO ~) Oy UT de tae ND

public class Position {
public

int

row;

public

int

column;

public

Position(int

row,

int column) {

this.row = row;
this.column = column;

}
}

This works, but it’s actually more complicated than is necessary.
Solution #3: HashSet
Although it may seem “obvious” that we would use a matrix to represent a grid, it’s actually easier not to do

that. All we actually need is a list of the white squares (as well as the ant’s location and orientation).
We can do this by using a HashSet of the white squares. !f a position is in the hash set, then the square is
white. Otherwise, it is black.

The one tricky bit is how to print the board. Where do we start printing? Where do we end?
Since we will need to print a grid, we can track what should be top-left and bottom-right corner of the grid.

Each time the ant moves, we compare the ant’s position to the most top-left position and most bottomright position, updating them if necessary.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com| 6th Edition

515

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
1

public class Board {

2

private HashSet<Position> whites = new HashSet<Position>();

3

private Ant ant = new Ant();

4

private Position topLeftCorner = new Position(@,

5

private Position bottomRightCorner = new Position(®,

@);
@);

&

7

public Board()

{ }

8

9

/* Move ant.

18

public void move()

*/
{

11

ant.turn(isWhite(ant.position));

12

flip(ant.position);

13

ant.move();

14

ensureFit(ant.position)
;

15

// Turn

// flip

// move

}

16

17

/* Flip color of cells.

18

private void flip(Position position)

19

if (whites.contains(position))

228

{

{

whites .remove(position);

2

} else {

22

whites .add(position.clone());

23

24

*/

}

}

25
26

/* Grow grid by tracking the most top-left and

27

private void ensureFit(Position position)

28

int row = position.row;

28

int

bottom-right

positions.*/

{

column = position.column;

38

31

topLeftCorner.row = Math.min(topLeftCorner.row,

32

topLeftCorner.column = Math.min(topLeftCorner.column,

row);
column)
;

ai}

34

bottomRightCorner.row = Math.max(bottomRightCorner.row,

3p

bottomRightCorner.column = Math.max(bottomRightCorner.column,

36

}

37
38

/* Check if cell is white.

38

public boolean isWhite(Position p)

48
41

*/
{

return whites.contains(p);
}

43

43

/* Check if cell is white.

44

public boolean isWhite(int row,

45
AG

*/
int

column)

return whites.contains(new Position(row,

{

column));

}

a7

48

/*

49

public String toString()

Print board.

*/

{

52

StringBuilder sb = new StringBuilder();

51

int rowMin = topLeftCorner.row;

52

int rowMax = bottomRightCorner.row;

53

int colMin = topLeftCorner.column;

54

int colMax = bottomRightCorner.column;

55

for

56

516

(int r = rowMin;

for (int

r <= rowMax;

c = colMin;

r++)

c <= colMax;

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

{

c++)

{

row)
;
column)
;

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
ah

if (r == ant.position.row && Cc == ant.position.column) {

58

sb.append(ant.orientation)
;

58

} else if (isWhite(r, c)) {

68

sb.append("X");

61

} else {
sb.append("_”);

62
63

}

64

}

ae

sb.append("\n");

65

}

67

sb.append("Ant:

68

return sb.toString();

" + ant.orientation + ".

\n");

}

69

The implementation of Ant and Orientation is the same.
The implementation of Position gets updated slightly, in order to support the HashSet functionality.

The position will be the key, so we need to implement a hashCode() function.
1

public class

Position {

2

public int row;

3

public

int column;

4

5

public Position(int row,

6

int column)

{

this.row = row;

?

this.column = column;

8

}

8

18

@Override

11

public boolean equals(Object o)

12

if (o instanceof Position) {

ie

Position p = (Position) 0;

14

{

return p.row == row && p.column == column;

15

}

16

return false;

ied

}

18

13

@Override

28

public int hashCode() {

21

/* There are many options

va

return

23

for hash functions.

This

is

one.

*/

(row * 31) “ column;

}

24

25

public Position clone() {

26

return new Position(row,

27

28

column);

}

}

The nice thing about this implementation is that if we do need to access a particular cell elsewhere, we have
consistent row and column labeling.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

517

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
16.23 Rand7 from Rand5: Implement a method rand7() given rand5S ( ). That is, given a method that
generates a random number between 0 and 4 (inclusive), write a method that generates a random
number between 0 and6 (inclusive).
pg 186
SOLUTION

To implement this function correctly, we must have each of the values between 0 and 6 returned with 1/7th
probability.

First Attempt (Fixed Number of Calls)
As afirst attempt, we might try generating all numbers between 0 and 9, and then mod the resulting value
by 7. Our code for it might look something like this:
1

int rand7()

2

return v % 7;

3

a

{

int v = rand5() + rand5();

i

Unfortunately, the above code will not generate the values with equal probability. We can see this by

looking at the results of each call to rand5 () and the return result of the rand7() function.

Ist Call

2nd Call

Result

Ist Call

)

2)

es

2

3

)

1

1

2

A

4)

2

py);

3

4)

4)

3

S:

3

al

4)

4

4

3

2

1

Q

=

3

3

1

1

1

5

1

3

1

Bain,

2nd Call

3

4

a

6

=.

A

dl

4

5

4

2

2

4)

Br

4

3

2

1

3

4

4

2

2

:

a

Each individual row has a 1 in 25 chance of occurring, since there are two calls to rand5(

Result

) and each distrib-

utes its results with % th probability. If you count up the number oftimes each number occurs, you'll note

that this rand7() function will return 4 with 4s th probability but return 0 with just Mas th probability.
This means that our function has failed; the results do not have probability Vis th.

Now, imagine we modify our function to add an if-statement, to change the constant multiplier, or to insert

a new call to rand5().

We will still wind up with a similar looking table, and the probability of getting any

one of those rows will be Vn , where k is the number of calls to rand5() in that row. Different rows may
have different number of calls.

The probability of winding up with the result of the rand7() function being, say, 6 would be the sum of
the probabilities of all rows that result in 6. That is:

P(rand7() = 6) =
- 518

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

Mot Mot..t
Ya

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate

We know that, in order for our function to be correct, this probability must equal VA . This is impossible
though. Because 5 and 7 are relatively prime, no series of reciprocal powers of 5 will result in }4 .
Does this mean the problem is impossible? Not exactly. Strictly speaking, it means that, as long as we can

list out the combinations of randS( ) results that will result in a particular value of rand7(), the function
will not give well distributed results.

We can still solve this problem. We just have to use a while loop, and realize that there's no telling just how
many turns will be required to return a result.

Second Attempt (Nondeterministic Number of Calls)

As soon as we've allowed for a while loop, our work gets much easier. We just need to generate a range of
values where each value is equally likely (and where the range has at least seven elements). If we can do this,
then we can discard the elements greater than the previous multiple of 7, and mod the rest of them by 7. This
will get us a value within the range of 0 to 6, with each value being equally likely.

In the below code, we generate the range 0 through 24 by doingS

*

rand5()

+

rand5(). Then,

we discard the values between 21 and 24, since they would otherwise make rand7() unfairly weighted
towards 0 through 3. Finally, we mod by 7 to give us the values in the range 0 to 6 with equal probability.

Note that because we discard values in this approach, we have no guarantee on the number of rand5()

calls

it may take to return a value. This is what is meant by a nondeterministic number of calls.
2

int

2

rand7()

while

{

(true)

{

3

int num = 5 *

rand5()

4

if (num < 21)

{

5

6
7
8

+ rand5();

return num % 7;

}

ii

}

Observe that doing5

*

rand5()

+

rand5() gives us exactly one way of getting each number in its

range (0 to 24). This ensures that each value is equally probable.

Could we instead do 2 *

rand5() + rand5()? No, because the values wouldn't be equally distributed.

For example, there would be three ways of gettinga6(6 =
*

2

*

1+ 4,6 = 2

*

2 + 2,and6 = 2

3 + @) but only one way of getting a 0 (0=2*0+8@).
The values in the range are not equally probable.

There is a way that we can use 2

*

rand5()

and still get an identically distributed range, but it's much

/ *evens

between @ and 9 */

more complicated. See below.
1

int rand7()

2

while

{

(true)

{

3

int r1 = 2 * rand5();

4

int r2 = randS();

*used later to generate a‘@ or 1 */

5

if (r2

6

int

i

int num = r1 + randi;

8

if (num < 7) {

9

{ / *r2 has extra even num-discard the extra */

randil = r2 % 2;

/

*Generate @ or 1 */
/

*will be in the range @ to 9 */

return num;

12

}

1

}

12
13

!= 4)

/

}
}

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

519

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
In fact, there is an infinite number of ranges we can use. The key is to make sure that the range is big enough
and that all values are equally likely.

16.24 Pairs with Sum: Design an algorithm to find all pairs of integers within an array which sum to a
specified value.
pg 185

SOLUTION
Let’s start with a definition. If we’re trying to find a pair of numbers that sums to z, the complement of x will
bez

- x(thatis, the number that can be added to x to make Z). For example, if we're trying to find a pair

of numbers that sums to 12, the complement of —5 would be 17.

Brute Force

A brute force solution is to just iterate through all pairs and print the pair if its sum matches the target sum.
L

ArrayList<Pair> printPairSums(int[]

2

ArrayList<Pair>

3

for

4

(int i = @ ;

for

5

(int

j

i < array.length;

= i+ 1;

j

i++)

< array.length;

if (array[i] + array[j]

6

array,

{

{
j++)

{

== sum) {

result.add(new Pair(array[i],

7
8
S

int sum)

result = new ArrayList<Pair>()
;

array[j]));

}
if
}

19

11

return result;

}

If there are duplicates in the array (e.g.,{5, 6, 5}), it might print the same sum twice. You should discuss
this with your interviewer.

Optimized Solution

We can optimize this with a hash map, where the value in the hash map reflects the number of “unpaired”
instances of a key. We walk through the array. At each element x, check how many unpaired instances of
x’s complement preceded it in the array. If the count is at least one, then there is an unpaired instance of x’s
complement. We add this pair and decrement x’s complement to signify that this element has been paired.
If the count is zero, then increment the value of x in the hash table to signify that x is unpaired.
1

ArrayList<Pair> printPairSums(int[]

2

ArrayList<Pair>

3

HashMap<Integer,

4

for (int x

:

array,

int sum)

Integer>

array)

unpairedCount = new HashMap<Integer,

$

int complement = sum - x;
if (unpairedCount.getOrDefault (complement,
result.add(new Pair(x,

3

6)

> 6)

{

complement,

-1);

// decrement complement

complement)
);

adjustCounterBy(unpairedCount,

} else {

S$
19

adjustCounterBy(unpairedCount,

it

}

12

}

13

return result;

520

Integer>();

{

6
7

{

result = new ArrayList<Pair>();

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

x,

1);

//

increment

count

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
16

void adjustCounterBy(HashMap<Integer,

i?
i8

counter.put(key,

Integer> counter,

counter.getOrDefault(key,

int key,

int delta) {

8) + delta);

}

This solution will print duplicate pairs, but will not reuse the same instance of an element. It will take O(N)

time and O(N) space.

Alternate Solution
Alternatively, we can sort the array and then find the pairs in a single pass. Consider this array:

{-2,

-1,

®,

3,

5, 6, 7, 9,

13,

14}.

Let first point to the head of the array and last point to the end of the array. To find the complement of
first,
we just move last backwards until we find it. If First + last <

sum,thenthereis no comple-

ment for First. We can therefore move first forward. We stop when first is greater than last.
Why must this find all complements for First? Because the array is sorted and we're trying progressively
smaller numbers. When the sum of First and last is less than the sum, we know that trying even smaller
numbers (as last) won't help us find a complement.

Why must this find all complements for last? Because all pairs must be made up ofafirst anda last.
We've found all complements for First, therefore we've found all complements of last.
1

void printPairSums(int[]

2

Arrays.sort (array) ;

3

int first = 9;

array,

4

int last = array.length

5

while

(first <

last)

-

int sum)

{

1;

{

&

int s = array[first] + array[last];

?

if (s == sum) {

g

System.out.println(array[first] + “ “ + array[last]);

2]

first++;

18

last--;

LL

} else {

12

if

13

else

44

last--;

}

15
ig

(s < sum) first++;

}
}

This algorithm takes O(N log N) time to sort and O(N) time to find the pairs.

Note that since the array is presumably unsorted, it would be equally fast in terms of big O to just do a
binary search at each element for its complement. This would give us a two-step algorithm, where each

stepisO(N log N).

16.25 LRU Cache: Design and build a“least recently used” cache, which evicts the least recently used item.
The cache should map from keys to values (allowing you to insert and retrieve a value associated
with a particular key) and be initialized with a max size. When it is full, it should evict the least
recently used item. You can assume the keys are integers and the values are strings.
pg 185

SOLUTION

We should start off by defining the scope of the problem. What exactly do we need to achieve?

Inserting Key, Value Pair: We need to be able to insert a (key, value) pair.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

521

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
+

Retrieving Value by Key: We need to be able to retrieve the value using the key.
Finding Least Recently Used: We need to know the least recently used item (and, likely, the usage

ordering of all items).
-

Updating Most Recently Used: When we retrieve a value by key, we need to update the order to be the

most recently used item.
-

Eviction:
The cache should have a max capacity and should remove the least recently used item when
it hits capacity.

The (key, value) mapping suggests a hash table. This would make it easy to look up the value associated
with a particular key.

Keychain

Book

Blanket

Food

Unfortunately, a hash table usually would not offer a quick way to remove the most recently used item. We
could mark each item with a timestamp and iterate through the hash table to remove the item with the

lowest timestamp, but that can get quite slow (O(N) for insertions).
instead, we could use a linked list, ordered by the most recently used. This would make it easy to mark an
item as the most recently used (just put it in the front of the list) or to remove the least recently used item

72, Food

|

13, Keychain

|

45, Blanket

Vv

(remove the end).
27, Book

Unfortunately, this does not offer a quick way to look up an item by its key. We could iterate through the

linked list and find the item by key. But this could get very slow (O(N) for retrieval).
Each approach does half of the problem (different halves) very well, but neither approach does both parts
well.
Can we get the best parts of each? Yes. By using both!
The linked list looks as it did in the earlier example, but now it’s a doubly linked list. This allows us to easily
remove an element from the middle of the linked list. The hash table now maps to each linked list node

<P)

13, Keychain

&|

45, Blanket

>

4‘

72, Food

4

rather than the value.

27, Book

The algorithms now operate as follows:

*

Inserting Key, Value Pair: Create a linked list node with key, value. Insert into head of linked list. Insert
key -> node mapping into hash table.

-

Retrieving Value by Key: Look up node in hash table and return value. Update most recently used item

522

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
(see below).
Finding Least Recently Used: Least recently used item will be found at the end of the linked list.

Updating Most Recently Used: Move node to front of linked list. Hash table does not need to be
updated.

Eviction: Remove tail of linked list. Get key from linked list node and remove key from hash table.
The code below implements these classes and algorithms,
1

public class Cache {

2

private int maxCacheSize;

3

private HashMap<Integer,

LinkedListNode> map =

new HashMap<Integer, LinkedListNode>();

4

'5)

private LinkedListNode listHead = null}

6

public

LinkedListNode listTail = null;

?
8

public Cache(int maxSize)
maxCacheSize

9
18

{

= maxSize;

}

11

12

/* Get value for key and mark as most recently used.

13

public

String getValue(int key)

14

LinkedListNode item = map.get(key)
;

15

if

(item == null)

*/

{

return null;

16
17

/* Move to front of list to mark as most

18

if

(item != listHead)

{

19

removeFromLinkedList(item)
;

20

insertAtFrontOfLinkedList(item)
;

i

21

return

22
23

recently used.

*/

|

item.value;

}

24

25

/* Remove node from linked list.

26

private void

if (node == null)

27

*/

removeFromLinkedList(LinkedListNode node)

{

return;

28
29

if (node.prev

!= null)

30

if

!= null)

31

if (node == listTail)

listTail = node-.prev;

32

if

listHead = node.next;

33

34

(node.next

(node == listHead)

node.prev.next = node.next;
node.next.prev = node.prev;

}

:

35

/*

36

private void insertAtFrontOfLinkedList(LinkedListNode node)

Insert

if

37
38

node at front of linked list.

(listHead == null)

*/

{

{

listHead = node;
listTail = node;

39

} else {

4

listHead.prev = node;

41
42

node.next = listHead;

43

listHead = node;

ad

45

}

AG
47

/* Remove key/value pair from cache,

4g

public boolean removeKey(int key)

deleting from hashtable and linked list.

*/

{

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

523

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
4S

LinkedListNode node = map.get(key);

58
51

removeFromLinkedList
(node) ;
map.remove (key) ;

§2

return true;

53

}

54

55

/* Put key, value pair in cache. Removes old value for key if necessary. Inserts

56

* pair into linked list and

hash table.*/

57

public void setKeyValue(int key,

58

/* Remove if already there.

59

removeKey (key) ;

String value)

{

*/

628

61

/* If full,

62

if (map.size() >= maxCacheSize && listTail !=null) {

63

remove least

recently used item from cache.

*/

removeKey(listTail.key);

64

}

65

66

/* Insert new node.

67

LinkedListNode node = new LinkedListNode(key, value)
;

*/

68

insertAtFrontOfLinkedList(node);

6S

map.put(key,

78

node);

}

71

72

private static class

LinkedListNode {

73

private

74

public int key;

75

public String value;

76

public LinkedListNode(int k,

77

next,

prev;

String v)

{

key = k;

78

value = v;

79

}
}

88
Bi

LinkedListNode

}

Note that we’ve chosen to make LinkedListNode an inner class of Cache, since no other classes should
need access to this class and really should only exist within the scope of Cache.

16.26 Calculator:Givenan arithmeticequationconsisting of positive integers, +, -,* and /(no parentheses),
compute the result.
EXAMPLE

Input:

2*34+5/6*3415

Output:

23.5
pg 185

SOLUTION

The first thing we should realize is that the dumb thing—just applying each operator left to right—won't
work. Multiplication and division are considered “higher priority” operations, which means that they have

to happen before addition.
For example, if you have the simple expression 3+6*2, the multiplication must be performed first, and then
the addition. If you just processed the equation left to right, you would end up with the incorrect result,

18, rather than the correct one, 15. You know all of this, of course, but it’s worth really spelling out what it
means.

524

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
Solution #1
We can still process the equation from left to right; we just have to be a little smarter about how we do it.
Multiplication and division need to be grouped together such that whenever we see those operations, we

perform them immediately on the surrounding terms.
For example, suppose we have this expression:
2

-

6 -

7*8/2 + 5

It's fine to compute 2 -6 immediately and store itintoaresul1t variable. But, when wesee7* (something),
we know we need to fully process that term before adding it to the result.
We can do this by reading left to right and maintaining two variables.

+

The first is processing, which maintains the result of the current cluster of terms (both the operator
and the value). In the case of addition and subtraction, the cluster will be just the current term. In the
case of multiplication and division, it will be the full sequence (until you get to the next addition or

subtraction).
-

The second is the result variable. If the next term is an addition or subtraction (or there is no next

term), then processing is applied to result.
On the above example, we would do the following:
1.

Read +2. Apply it to processing. Apply processing to result. Clear processing.
processing =

{+,

2} -->

result = @

null

--> 2

2. Read -6. Apply it to processing. Apply processing to result. Clear processing.
processing =

{-,

6} -->

result = 2

3.

-->

-4

Read -7. Apply it to processing. Observe next sign is a *. Continue.
processing = {-,
result

4.

null

=

7}

-4

Read *8. Apply it to processing. Observe next sign is a /. Continue.
processing = {-,
result =

56}

-4

5. Read /2. Apply it to processing. Observe next sign is a +, which terminates this multiplication and

division cluster. Apply processing to result. Clear processing.
processing =

result =

{-,

28}

-4

-->

-->

null

-32

6. Read +5. Apply it to processing. Apply processing to result. Clear processing.
processing = {+,

result =

5} -->

-32

-->

null

-27

The code below implements this algorithm.
14
2

3

4

/* Compute the
*

right

and

* division,

result

applying

of the arithmetic
each term to a

we instead

sequence.

result.

This works

When we

see

reading left to

apply this sequence to a temporary variable.

double compute(String sequence)

*/

{

5

ArrayList<Term> terms = Term.parseTermSequence( sequence) ;

6

if

(terms == null)

by

a multiplication or

return Integer.MIN_ VALUE;

7

8

double result = @;

3)

Term processing = null;

10

for (int i = @;

i < terms.size();

i++) {

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com| 6th Edition

525

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
11

Term current = terms.get(i);

12

Term next = i+ 1 < terms.size()

? terms.get(i + 1)

:

null;

2
14

/* Apply the current term to “processing”.

1s

processing = collapseTerm(processing,

*/

current);

46

17

/*

18

Tf next term is

+ or

-,

then this

* “processing” to “result”,

19

cluster

is

done

and we

should apply

*/

if (next == null || next.getOperator() == Operator.ADD

20

||

next.getOperator() == Operator.SUBTRACT)

21

result = applyOp(result,

22

processing = null;

23

{

processing.getOperator(),

processing.getNumber()
);

}

24

}

25

26

return result;

}

27
28
29

/* Collapse two terms together using the operator in secondary and the numbers

3@

31

* from each.

*/

Term collapseTerm(Term primary, Term secondary)

32

if

(primary == null)

33

if

(secondary == null)

{

return secondary;

return primary;

34

35

double value = applyOp(primary.getNumber(),

36

secondary.getOperator(),

secondary .getNumber () ) ;

37

primary.setNumber (value) ;

38

return primary;

39
}
48

41

double applyOp(double left,

double right)

{

if

43

else if (op == Operator.SUBTRACT)

return left -

right;

44

else if

(op == Operator.MULTIPLY)

return left *

right;

45

else if

(op == Operator.DIVIDE)

46

(op == Operator.ADD)

Operator op,

42

return left + right;

return left /

right;

else return right;

47

}

4g

43

public class Term {

50

public enum Operator {

51

52

ADD,

SUBTRACT,

MULTIPLY,

DIVIDE,

BLANK

}

53

54

private double value;

55

private Operator operator = Operator.BLANK;

56

57

public Term(double v, Operator op) {

58

value = Vv;

53

60

operator = op;

}

61

62

public double getNumber()

63

public Operator getOperator()

{ return value;

64

public void setNumber(double v)

}

{ return operator;
{ value = v;

}

}

65

66

526

/*

Parses

arithmetic

sequence

into a

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

list of Terms.

For

example,

3-5*6 becomes

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate
67

* something like:

68

* If improperly formatted,

69

public static ArrayList<Term>

70

{SUBTRACT,

returns null.

S},

{MULTIPLY,

6}].

*/

parseTermSequence(String sequence) {

/* Code can be found in downloadable solutions. */

el
72

[{BLANK,3},

}
}

This takes O(N) time, where N is the length ofthe initial string.
Solution #2

Alternatively, we can solve this problem using two stacks: one for numbers and one for operators.
2-6-7* 8/245

The processing works as follows:
-

Each time we see a number, it gets pushed onto numberStack.

*

Operators get pushed onto operatorStack—as long as the operator has higher priority than the

Current top of the stack. If priority(currentOperator)

<=

priority(operatorStack.

top() ), then we ‘collapse’ the top of the stacks:
»

Collapsing: pop two elements off numberStack, pop an operator off operatorStack, apply
the operator, and push the result onto numberStack.

»

Priority: addition and subtraction have equal priority, which is lower than the priority of multiplication and division (also equal priority).

This collapsing continues until the above inequality is broken, at which point currentOperator is
pushed onto operatorStack.
+

Atthe very end, we collapse the stack.

Let’s see this with anexample:2 -

action

6 -

7* 8/2+5

ss

2 | numberStack.push(2)
-

| operatorStack.push(-)

numberStack

operatorStack

2

[empty
]

2

-

6 | numberStack.push(6)

6,

-

-4

[empty
]

-4

-

7 | numberStack.push(7)

«a

2

* | operatorStack.push(*)

7,

ae

-8| numberStack.push(8)

eee ase

/

|collapseStacks

[2 - 6]

operatorStack.push(-)

2

5

|collapseStack

-

-4

a ee

een

ie

ane

56,

-4

-

numberStack.push(/)

56,

-4

/,

-

|numberStack.push(2)

2,

56,

i.

=

collapseStack

[56 / 2]

28,

-4

collapseStack

[-4 - 28]

-32

[empty
]

operatorStack.push(+)

-32

+

|numberStack.push(5)
|

yp

collapseStack [-32 + 5]

-27

return -27

[7 * 8]

2

ee

-4

-

+

[empty
]

:

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 16 | Moderate

The code below implements
this algorithm.
woman
HW
fw NB

public enum Operator {
ADD,

SUBTRACT,

MULTIPLY,

DIVIDE,

BLANK

}
double compute(String sequence) {

Stack<Double> numberStack = new Stack<Double>();
Stack<Operator> operatorStack = new Stack<Operator>();
for (int i = @;

i < sequence.length();

i++)

{

try {
/* Get number and push.

*/

int value = parseNextNumber(sequence,

i);

numberStack.push( (double) value)
;
/* Move to the operator.

*/

i += Integer.toString(value).length();
if (i >= sequence.length()) {
break;

}
/* Get operator,

collapse top as needed,

push operator.

Operator op = parseNextOperator(sequence,
collapseTop(op,

numberStack,

*/

i);

operatorStack)
;

operatorStack.push(op)
;
} catch (NumberFormatException ex) {
return Integer.MIN_VALUE;

}

}

/* Do final cOllapse.

*/

collapseTop(Operator.BLANK,

numberStack, operatorStack)
;

if (numberStack.size() == 1 && operatorStack.size()

== 0)

{

return numberStack.pop();

}
return @;

}
36

38

/* Collapse top until priority(futureTop)

>

priority(top). Collapsing means to pop

* the top 2 numbers and apply the operator popped from the top of the operator
* stack,

41

and then

push that onto the numbers

void collapseTop(Operator futureTop,

42

43

Stack<Operator> operatorStack)

while

44

(operatorStack.size()

<=

priorityOfOperator(operatorStack.peek())) {

46

double second = numberStack.pop();

47

double first = numberStack.pop();

43

Operator op = operatorStack.pop();

48

double collapsed = applyOp(first,

50

numberStack.push(collapsed);

Sa.

} else {

52

break;

BS

528

{

>= 1 && numberStack.size()

if (priorityOfOperator(futureTop)

45

54

stack.*/

Stack<Double> numberStack,

}
}

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

op,

second);

>= 2)

{

Solutions to Chapter 16 { Moderate
55

}

56

57

/* Return priority of operator.

58
59

*

int priorityOfOperator(Operator op) {

68

switch

(op) {

61

case ADD:

62

case SUBTRACT:

return 1;

63

case MULTIPLY:

return 2;

64

case DIVIDE:

65

return 1;

case BLANK:

66

return 2;

return @;

}
return Q;

67

68

Mapped so that:

addition == subtraction < multiplication == division. */

}

69
70

/* Apply operator:

71

double applyOp(double left, Operator op,

72

left

[op]

if (op == Operator.ADD)

right.

* /

double right) {

return left + right;

73

else if (op == Operator.SUBTRACT)

return left

74

else if (op == Operator.MULTIPLY)

return left * right;

-

right;

75

else if (op == Operator.DIVIDE)

76

else return right;

return left / right;

77}
78

79

/*

88

int parseNextNumber(String seq,

Return the number that starts at offset.

int offset)

* /

{

81

StringBuilder sb = new StringBuilder();

82

while (offset < seq.length() && Character.isDigit(seq.charAt(offset)))

83

offset++;

84

85

}

86
87

{

sb.append(seq.charAt(offset)
);

return Integer.parseInt(sb.toString());
}

88

89

/* Return the operator that occurs as offset.

98

Operator parseNextOperator(String sequence,

91

if

(offset

<

sequence.length())

char op = sequence.charAt (offset) ;

G3

switch(op) {

94.

case

‘+’:

return Operator .ADD;

95

case

*-’;

return Operator. SUBTRACT ;

96

case

**?;

return Operator .MULTIPLY;

97

case

‘/’?:

return Operator.DIVIDE;

}

99
100

{

{

92

98

* /

int offset)

}
=o return Operator .BLANK;

101 }

This code also takes O(N) time, where N is the length of the string.
This solution involves a lot of annoying string parsing code. Remember that getting all these details out is

not that important in an interview. In fact, your interviewer might even Jet you assume the expression is

passed in pre-parsed into some sort of data structure.
Focus on modularizing your code from the beginning and “farming out” tedious or less interesting parts of
the code to other functions. You want to focus on getting the core compute function working. The rest of
the details can wait!

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

529

17
Solutions to Hard

17.1

Add Without Plus: Write a function that adds two numbers. You should not use + or any arithmetic
operators.

pg 186
SOLUTION

Our first instinct in problems like these should be that we're going to have to work with bits. Why? Because

when you take away the + sign, what other choice do we have? Plus, that’s how computers do it!
Our next thought should be to deeply understand how addition works. We can walk through an addition
problem to see if we can understand something new—some pattern—and then see if we can replicate that
with code.
So let’s do just that—let’s walk through an addition problem. We'll work in base 10 so that it’s easier to see.

To add 759 + 674, f would usually add digit[@] from each number, carry the one, add digit[1] from
each number, carry the one, and so on. You could take the same approach in binary: add each digit, and
carry the one as necessary.

Can we make this a little easier? Yes! Imagine | decided to split apart the “addition”
and “carry” steps. That is,

| do the following:
1. Add 759 + 674, but “forget”
to carry. | then get 323.
2. Add 759 + 674 but only do the carrying, rather than the addition of each digit. | then get 1110.

3. Add the result of the first two operations (recursively, using the same process described in step 1 and 2):
1110 + 323 = 1433.

Now, how would we do this in binary?

1. If| add two binary numbers together, but forget to carry, the ith bit in the sum will be @ only if a and b
have the same ith bit (both @ or both 1). This is essentially an XOR.
2. ifladd twonumbers together but only carry, | will have a 1 in the ith bit of the sum only if bits i

a and b are both 1s. This is an AND, shifted.
3. Now, recurse until there's nothing to carry.

The following code implements this algorithm.
2

int add(int a,

2

if (b == 0)

3

int sum = a * b;

4

int carry = (a & b)

530 |

int b)

f{

return a;
//

add without

<¢ 1;

carrying

// carry,

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

but don’t add

- 1 of

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
5

return add(sum,

oe

carry);

//

recurse with sum + carry

a

Alternatively, you can implement this iteratively.
1

int add(int a,

int b)

2

while (b

{

!= @)

3

int sum = a * b;

4

int carry =

S

a

6

{

// add without carrying

(a & b)

<< 1; // carry,

but don’t add

= sum;

b = Carry;

7

}

8

return

a;

a
Problems requiring us to implement core operations like addition and subtraction are relatively common.

The key in all of these problems is to dig into how these operations are usually implemented, so that we can
re-implement them with the constraints of the given problem.

17.2.

Shuffle: Write a method to shuffle a deck of cards. It must be a perfect shuffle—in other words, each
of the 52! permutations of the deck has to be equally likely. Assume that you are given a random
number generator which is perfect.
pg 186

SOLUTION

This is a very well known interview question, and a well known algorithm. if you aren't one of the lucky few
to already know this algorithm, read on.
Let’s imagine our n-element array. Suppose it looks like this:

[1] [2] [3] [4] [5]
Using our Base Case and Buildapproach,
we can ask this question: suppose we hadamethod shuffle(...)
that worked onn

-

1 elements. Could we use this to shuffle n elements?

Sure. In fact, that’s quite easy. We would first shuffle the first n - 1 elements. Then, we would take the nth

element and randomly swap it with an element in the array. That's it!

can
ow
bp wrpp

Recursively, that algorithm looks like this:

16

/* Random number between lower and higher,

int rand(int lower,

inclusive */

int higher) {

return lower + (int)(Math.random()

*

(higher

-

lower + 1));

}
int[]

shuffleArrayRecursively(int[]

if (i == @)

cards,

int i)

{

return cards;

shuffleArrayRecursively(cards,
int k = rand(@,

i);

//

i - 1);

// Shuffle earlier part

Pick random index to swap with

12

/* Swap element k and i */

13

int temp = cards[k];

14

cards[k]

= cards[i];

15

cards[i]

= temp;

16

17

/*

18

return cards;

Return shuffled array */

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

531

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
49}
What would this algorithm look like iteratively? Let’s think about it. All it does is moving through the array

and, for each element i, swapping array[ i] with a random element between @ and i, inclusive.
This is actually a very clean algorithm to implement iteratively:
Rs

void shuffleArrayIteratively(int[] cards)

Us
BR

int temp = cards[k];
cards[k]

= cards[i];

cards[i]

= temp;

Coo!

int k = rand(@,

Oy UT

BR

for (int i = @; i < cards.length;

{

i++) {

i);

}

}

The iterative approach is usually how we see this algorithm written.

17.3

Random Set: Write a method to randomly generate a set of m integers from an array of size n. Each

element must have equal probability of being chosen.
pg 186
SOLUTION

Like the prior problem which was similar, (problem 17.2 on page 531), we can look at this problem recur-

sively using the Base Case and Build approach.
Suppose we have an algorithm that can pull a random set ofm elements from an array of sizen

-

1.How

can we use this algorithm to pull a random set ofm elements from an array of size n?

We can first pull a random set of size m from the firstn

-

1 elements. Then, we just need to decide if

array[n] should be inserted into our subset (which would require pulling out a random element from it).

An easy way to do this is to pick a random number k from @ through n. Ifk < m,theninsert array[n] into
subset [k J. This will both “fairly” (i.e., with proportional probability) insert array[n ] into the subset and
“fairly” remove a random element from the subset.

The pseudocode for this recursive algorithm would look like this:
1

int[] pickMRecursively(int[] original,

2

if (i + 1 == m)

3

int m,

int i)

{

{ // Base case

/* return first m elements of original */

4

} else if (i

5

int[]

6

int k =

7

if (k < m) {

8

+1>m) {

subset = pickMRecursively(original, m,
random value

between

@ and i,

i - 1);

inclusive

subset[k] = original[i];

9

}

10

return

11
12

13

subset;

}
return null;

}

This is even cleaner to write iteratively. In this approach, we initialize an array SubSet to be the first m

elements in original. Then, we iterate through the array, starting at element m, inserting array[
i] into
the subset at (random) position k wheneverk <
1

int[]

2

pickMiteratively(int[]

int[]

subset = new int[m];

3

532

m.

original,

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

int m)

{

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
4

/* Fill in subset array with first part of original array */

S

for

6

(int i = 0;

i <m

3;

i++)

{

subset[i] = original[i];

7

}

8

s)

/* Go through rest of original array. */

10

for (int i =m;

i < original.length;

11

int k = rand(@,

12

if (k < m) {

13

i);

i++)

{

// Random # between @ and i,

inclusive

subset[{k] = original[i];

14

}

Hs

}

16
17

18

return

subset;

}

Both solutions are, not surprisingly, very similar to the algorithm to shuffle an array.

17.4

Missing Number: An array A contains all the integers from 0 to n, except for one number which
is missing. In this problem, we cannot access an entire integer in A with a single operation. The

elements of A are represented in binary, and the only operation we can use to access themis “fetch
the jth bit of Alij,’ which takes constant time. Write code to find the missing integer. Can you do it
in O(n) time?
pg 186

SOLUTION

You may have seen a very similar sounding problem: Given a list of numbers from 0 to n, with exactly
one number removed, find the missing number. This problem can be solved by simply adding the list of

numbers and comparing it to the actual sum of 0 through n, which is Sel . The difference will be the
missing number.

We could solve this by computing the value of each number, based on its binary representation, and calculating the sum.

The runtime of this solution isn

*

length(n), when length is the number of bits in n. Note that

length(n) = log, (n). So, the runtime is actuallyO(n log(n)). Not quite good enough!
So how else can we approach it?
We can actually use a similar approach, but leverage the bit values more directly.

Picture a list of binary numbers (the - - --- indicates the value that was removed):
eeeee

80100

81000

01160

60001

00101

01001

01101

ge010

80110

01010

oerem st

00111

61011

Removing the number above creates an imbalance of 1s and Os in the least significant bit, which we'll call

LSB,. in a list of numbers from 0 to n, we would expect there to be the same number of Os as 1s

(ifn is odd),

or an additional 0 if n is even. That is:
if n% 2 == 1 then count(@s)

count (1s)

if n % 2 == @ then count(@s) = 1 + count(1s)

Note that this means that count (@s ) is always greater than or equal to count (1s).

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

533

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
When we remove a value v from the list, we'll know immediately if v is even or odd just by looking at the

least significant bits of all the other values in the list.

_|a@ is removed.

a @ is removed.

= @ | count(@s) = count(1s)
-LSB,(v)

count(@s) < count(1s)

v%2==1 |a1 is removed.

a1 is removed.

LSB,(v) = 1 |

count(@s) > count(1s)

v%2

So, if count(@s)

count(@s) > count(1s)

<= count(1s), then v is even. If count(@s)

> count(1s), then v is odd.

We can now remove all the evens and focus on the odds, or remove all the odds and focus on the evens.
Okay, but how do we figure out what the next bit in v is? !f v were contained in our (now smaller) list, then
we should expect to find the following (where c ount, indicates the number of 0s or 1s in the second least
significant bit):
count,(@s) = count,(1s)

OR

count,(@s) = 1 + count,(1s)

As in the earlier example, we can deduce the value of the second least significant bit (LSB.) of v.

LSB,(v)
.

LSB,(v) ==

a @ is removed.

a @ is removed.

count,(@s) = count,(1s)

count,(@s)

1 | a1 is removed.

~=—SC|

count,,(@s)

< count,(1s)

a1 is removed.

> count,(1s)

count,(@s)

> count,(1s)

Again, we have the same conclusion:

-

Ifcount,(@s) <= count,(1s),thenLSB,(v) = @.

-

Ifcount,(@s)

> count,(1s),thenLSB,(v) = 1.

We can repeat this process for each bit. On each iteration, we count the number
of 0s and 1s in bit i tocheck

if LSB,
(v) is 0 or 1. Then, we discard the numbers where LSB,(x)

!=

LSB,(v). That is, if v is even, we

discard the odd numbers, and so on.

By the end of this process, we will have computed all bits in v. In each successive iteration, we look at n, then

n / 2,thenn / 4,andsoon, bits. This results ina runtime of O(N).
If it helps, we can also move through this more visually. In the first iteration, we start with all the numbers:

Since count,(@s)
LSB,(x)

!=

534

00100

610600

61100

e0001

00101

61001

01101

00010

00110

01010

==

00111

01011

>

count,(1s), we know that LSB,(v)

=

1. Now, discard all numbers x where

LSB,(v).

Now, count,(@s)

LSB,(x)

e00800

>

808802

€0100

Q400e

2200

e0001

00101

61001

01101

80620

00310

O1020

aren

00111

61011

count,(1s), so we know that LSB,(v)

!= LSB,(v).

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

=

1.Now, discard all numbers x where

Solutions to Chapter 17 { Hard

860008

66208

0x000

8ri88

eeeet

0810+

400

Ot104t

G88t8

80440

610140

--=--

60111

61011

This time, count,(@s) <= count,(1s),we
know that LSB,(v) = ®.Now, discard all numbers
x where
LSB,(x)

We're

!= LSB,(v).

down

LSB,(v)

86800

866408

037000

62280

e000

@6261

4864

@424023

0016

00240

84010

====-

004344

01011

to just one

number.

In

this

case,

count,(@s)

<=

count,(1s),

so

= @.

When we discard all numbers where LSB,(x)
empty, then count,(@S)

<=

!=

®, we'll wind up with an empty list. Once the list is

count,(1s),soLSB,(v)

=

@.In other words, once we have an empty

list, we can fill in the rest of the bits of v with 0.
This process will compute that, for the example above, v = 00011.
The code below implements this algorithm. We've implemented the discarding aspect by partitioning the

int findMissing(ArrayList<BitInteger>

/* Start from the least

WM

PR

array by bit value as we go.
array)

significant bit,

return findMissing(array,

{

and work our way up */

®);

>= BitInteger.INTEGER_STZE)

int

column)

{

ON

int findMissing(ArrayList<BitInteger> input,
if (column

EPO

DOM

}

}

ArrayList<BitInteger> oneBits = new ArrayList<BitInteger>(input.size()/2);

11

ArrayList<BitInteger>

13

for (BitInteger t

return @;

3

14

:

zeroBits

input)

= new ArrayList<BitInteger>(input.size()/2);

{

if (t.fetch(column) == @)

15

{

zeroBits.add(t);

16

}

17

else {

oneBits.add(t);

18

}

1s

}

2@

if

21

(zeroBits.size()

<= oneBits.size())

int v = findMissing(zeroBits,

22

return (v << 1)

23

{

column + 1);

| 9;

} else {

24

int v = findMissing(oneBits,

25

return (v << 1)

26

27

{ // We’re done!

column + 1);

| 1;

}

}

in lines 24 and 27, we recursively calculate the other bits of v. Then, we insert either a 0 or 1, depending on

whether or not count,(@s) <= count,(1s).

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

535

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
17.5

Letters and Numbers: Given an array filled with Jetters and numbers, find the longest subarray with
an equal number of letters and numbers.
pg 186

SOLUTION

inthe introduction, we discussed the importance of creating a really good, general-purpose example. That's

absolutely true. It’s also important, though, to understand what matters.
In this case, we just want an equal number of letters and numbers. All letters are treated identically and
all numbers are treated identically. Therefore, we can use an example with a single letter and a single
number—or, for that matter, As and Bs, Os and 1s, or Thing1s and Thing2s.
With that said, let’s start with an example:
[A,

B, A, A, A,

B,

B,

B, A,

B, A, A,

B,

B, A, A, A, A, A, A]

We're looking for the smallest subarray where count(A,

subarray) = count(B,

subarray).

Brute Force

Let’s start with the obvious solution. Just go through all subarrays, count the number ofAs and Bs (or letters
and numbers), and find the longest one that is equal.
We can make one small optimization to this. We can start with the longest subarray and, as soon as we find

one which fits this equality condition, return it.
1

/* Return the largest subarray with equal number of @s and is.

2

* subarray,

3

*

4

starting from the longest.

return.

char[] findLongestSubarray(char[]

5

for

6

(int len = array.length;

for

(int i = @;

array) {

len > 1;

i <= array.length

-

?

if (hasEquaiLettersNumbers(array,

8

return extractSubarray(array,

9

18

}

len--)

{

len;

i++)

i,

i + len

i,

i+ len

{
-

-

1))

{

1);

}

11

}

12

return null;

13

Look at each

As soon as we find one that’s equal,

}

14

15

/* Check

16

boolean hasEquaiLettersNumbers(char[]

if subarray has equal number of letters

17

int counter = 9;

18

for (int i = start;

19

i++)

and numbers.

*/

int start, int end) {

{

if (Character.isLetter(array[i]))

26

{

counter++;

21

} else if (Character.isDigit(array[i])) {

22

counter --;

23

}

24

}

245)

return counter == @;

26

i <= end;

array,

}

27

28

/* Return subarray of array between start and end

28

char[] extractSubarray(char[]

array,

int start,

306

char[] subarray = new char[end - start + 1];

31

for

32

536

(int i = start;

i <= end;

subarray[i - start]

i++)

= array[i];

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

{

(inclusive).

int end) {

*/

we

Solutions to Chapter 17

33

}

34

35

Hard

return subarray;

}

Despite the one optimization we made, this algorithm is stillO(N*), where N is the length of the array.
Optimal Solution

What we're trying to do is find a subarray where the count of letters equals the count of numbers. What if
we just started from the beginning, counting the number ofletters and numbers?
aaaaioioaioioaaioaai
aaa ae a
#a

123

#1

#8

@

4

4

5

5

5

6

7

7

8

9

91011 12 13 14

0031

4

2

23

4

4

45

5

5

6

6

6

6

6

6

Certainly, whenever the number of letters equals the number of numbers, we can say that from index 0 to
that index is an “equal” subarray.
That will only tell us equal subarrays that start at index 0. How can we identify all equal subarrays?

Let’s picture this. Suppose we inserted an equal subarray (like al1a1a) after an array like alaaal. How
would that impact the counts?
aijaaaitaidiaia

#a112344]555667
#1011112{/234455

Study the numbers before the subarray (4, 2) and the end (7, 5). You might notice that, while the values

aren't the same, the differences are: 4

-

2

=

7

-

5. This makes sense. Since they’ve added the same

number of letters and numbers, they should maintain the same difference.

:

Observe that when the difference is the same, the subarray starts one after the initial matching
index and continues through the final matching index. This explains line 10 in the code below.

Let's update the earlier array with the differences.
aiaaadliioaiéoioaaiioaaii_a
fa

123

#1

08

-

4445

060060312

123

4

3

5

5

6

7

23

4

4

«4

23

21

23

7

8

5

aa

aéea

9

9 10 11 12 13 14

5

5

6

6

6

66

6

23

4

3

4

5

6

#8

7

Whenever we return the same difference, then we know we have found an equal subarray. To find the

biggest subarray, wejust have to find the two indices farthest apart with the same value.
To do so, we use a hash table to store the first time we see a particular difference. Then, each time we see the
same difference, we see if this subarray (from first occurrence of this index to current index) is bigger than
the current max. If so, we update the max.
1

char[] findLongestSubarray(char[]

array)

{

2

/* Compute deltas between count of numbers and count of letters.

3

int{]

*/

deltas = computeDeltaArray(array)
;

4

5

/*

6

int[] match = findLongestMatch(deltas)
;

Find pair in deltas with matching values and largest

span.

*/

7

8

/* Return the subarray.

Note that it starts one *after* the initial occurence of

g

* this delta.

*/

12

return extract(array, match[@] + 1, match[1]);

11}
12

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

537

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
123

/* Compute the difference between the number of letters and numbers between the

14

15

* beginning of the array and each index.

*/

int[] computeDeltaArray(char[] array) {

16

int({]

17

int delta = @;

18

for (int i = @;

19

if

deltas = new int[array.length];

i < array.length;

i++) {

(Character.isLetter(array[i]))

{

deltat++;

28

2i

} else if (Character.isDigit(array[i])) {

22

delta--;

23

}

24

deltas[i]

= delta;

25

}

26

return deltas;

27}
28

28

/* Find the matching pair of values in the deltas array with the largest

38

31

* difference in indices.

int[]

*/

findLongestMatch(int[]

deltas)

32

HashMap<Integer,

33

map.put(@,

34

int[]

35

for (int i = 0; i < deltas.length;

36

{

Integer> map = new HashMap<Integer,

Integer>();

-1);

max = new int[2];

i++) {

if (!map.containskey(deltas[i])) {

37

map.put(deltas[i],

38

i);

} else {

39

int match = map.get(deltas[i]);

428

int distance = i - match;

41

int longest = max[1]

42

if (distance > longest) {

43

max[{1] = i;

44

max[@]

AS

- max[@];

= match;

}

AG

}

}

A?
48

return max;

49

}

50

§1

char[]

extract(char{]

array,

int start,

int end) { /* same */ }

This solution takes O(N) time, where N is size of the array.

17.6

Count of 2s: Write a method to count the number of 2s between 0 and n.
pg 186

SOLUTION

Our first approach to this problem can be—and probably should be—a brute force solution. Remember

that interviewers want to see how you're approaching a problem. Offering a brute force solution is a great

/* Counts the number of

‘2’

digits between @ and n */

int numberOf2sInRange(int n) {
int count = @;

for (int i = 2;

un

DB

WR
oe

way to start.

i <= n;

i++) { // Might as well start at 2

count += numberOf2s(i);

538

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

}
return

count;

}

w

On

_ Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard

16

/* Counts the number of

11

int numberOf2s(int n) {

12

int

13

while (n > @)

14

digits in a single number */

count = @;

if

15

{

(n % 10 == 2)

{

count++;

16

}

17

n=n/ 10;

18

}

19

20

‘2’

return

count;

}

The only interesting part is that it’s probably cleaner to separate out numberOFf2s into a separate method.
This demonstrates an eye for code cleanliness.

Improved Solution
Rather than looking at the problem by ranges of numbers, we can look at the problem digit by digit. Picture
a sequence of numbers:
Q

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

§)

10

11

#12

#13

#14

#15

#16

#17

#18

«#19

2@

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

11@ 111 112 113 114 115 116 117 118 119

We know that roughly one tenth of the time, the last digit will be a 2 since it happens once in any sequence

of ten numbers. in fact, any digit is a 2 roughly one tenth of the time.
We say “roughly” because there are (very common) boundary conditions. For example, between 1 and 100,

the 10’s digit is a 2 exactly vagy ‘h of the time. However, between 1 and 37, the 10's digit is a 2 much more
than 1/10" of the time.
We can work out what exactly the ratio is by looking at the three cases individually: digit < 2,digit =
2,anddigit

>

2.

Case digit < 2

Consider the value x

=

61523 andd

=

3, and observe that x[d]

There are 2s at the 3rd digit in the ranges 2000
32999,42000 - 42999,and52000

-

-

2999,12000

-

= 1 (that is, the dth digit of x is 1).
12999,22000 -

22999, 32000

52999. We will not yet have hit the range 62000 -

-

62999,so

there are 6000 2s total in the 3rd digit. This is the same amount as if we were just counting all the 2s in the
3rd digit between 1 and 60000.

In other words, we can round down to the nearest 10%7, and then divide by 10, to compute the number of
2s in the dth digit.
if x[d]

< 2:

count2sInRangeAtDigit(x,

d)

=

let y = round down to nearest 10%
return y /

10

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

539

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
Case digit > 2

Now, let's look at the case where dth digit of
x is greater than 2 (x[d] > 2).Wecan apply almost the exact
same logic to see that there are the same number of 2s in the 3rd digit inthe range @
inthe range@

-

if x[d]

-

63525 as there as

7@0@2. So, rather than rounding down, we round up.

> 2:

count2sInRangeAtDigit(x,

d)

=

let y = round up to nearest 10%
return y

/

10

Case digit = 2

The final case may be the trickiest, but it
follows
from
the earlier logic. Consider X = 62523 andd = 3.We
know that there are the same
ranges
of
2s from before (that
is, the ranges 2000 - 2999,12000 - 12999,
... 52008

-

52999). How many appear
in the 3rd digit
in the final, partial range from 62000

Well, that should be pretty easy. It's just 524 (62000,
if x[d]

= 2:

count2sInRangeAtDigit(x,

d)

62001,

...,

-

62523?

62523).

=

let y = round down to nearest 10%?

let z = right side of x (i.e., x % 10°)
return
y
/10+2z2+1

Now, all you need is to iterate through each digit in the number. Implementing this code is reasonably

straightforward.
int count2sInRangeAtDigit(int number,
int powerOf1@ =

(int) Math.pow(1®,

int d) {
d);

int nextPowerOf1@ = powerOf1e * 10;
int right = number % powerOf1@;
int roundDown = number -

number % nextPowerOf1@;

int roundUp = roundDown + nextPowerOf1@;

18

int digit =

(number / powerOf1@) % 10;

if

2)

i

(digit <
return

{ // if the digit in spot digit is

roundDown / 10;

12

} else if (digit == 2)

i3

return roundDown /

14

} else

15

17

{

return

16

{
10 + right + 1;

roundUp /

10;

}
}

18

19

int count2sInRange(int number)

28

int

{

count = 9;

21

int len = String.valueOf
(number) .length() ;

22

for

23

(int digit = @;

24

}

2)

return

26

digit <

len;

digit++)

count += count2sInRangeAtDigit(number,

{
digit)
;

count;

}

This question requires very careful testing. Make sure to generate a list of test cases, and to work through
each of them.

540

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
17.7.

Baby Names: Each year, the government releases a list of the 10,000 most common baby names
and their frequencies (the number of babies with that name). The only problem with this is that
some names have multiple spellings. For example, “John” and “Jon” are essentially the same name

but would be listed separately in the list. Given two lists, one of names/frequencies and the other

of pairs of equivalent names, write an algorithm to print a new list of the true frequency of each
name. Note that if John and Jon are synonyms, and Jon and Johnny are synonyms, then John and
Johnny are synonyms. (it is both transitive and symmetric.) In the final list, any name can be used
as the real” name.
EXAMPLE
Input:

Names: John (15), Jon (12), Chris (13), Kris (4), Christopher (19)
Synonyms: (Jon, John), ohn, Johnny), (Chris, Kris), (Chris, Christopher)
Output: John (27), Kris (36)
pg 187

SOLUTION

Let’s start off with a good example. We want an example with some names with multiple synonyms and
some with none. Additionally, we want the synonym list to be diverse in which name is on the left side and
which is on the right. For example, we wouldn't want Johnny to always be the name on the left side as we're

creating the group of John, Jonathan, Jon, and Johnny).
This list should work fairly well.

Name

Count

Name

John

10

Jonathan

jon

3

jon

Davis

2

Kari

3

Johnny

ala

Carlton

8

Carleton

2

Jonathan

9

Carrie

5

_

Alternate|
John

|

Johnny

Johnny

John

Kari

Carrie

Carleton

Carlton

The final list should be something like: John (33), Kari (8), Davis(2), Carleton (10).
Solution #1

Let’s assume our baby names list is given to us as a hash table. (If not, it’s easy enough to build one.)
We can start reading pairs in from the synonyms list. As we read the pair (Jonathan, John), we can merge the
counts for Jonathan and John together. We'll need to remember, though, that we saw this pair, because, in
the future, we could
discover
that
Jonathan is equivalent to something else.
We can use a hash table (L1) that maps from a name to its “true” name. We'll also need to know, given a
“true” name, all the names equivalent to it. This will be stored in a hash table L2. Note that L2 acts as a

reverse lookup of L1.
READ (Jonathan,

John)

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com|6th Edition

541

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
L1.ADD Jonathan
L2.ADD John

READ (Jon,

->

-> John
Jonathan

Johnny)

L1.ADD Jon

->

Johnny

L2.ADD Johnny -> Jon

READ (Johnny,

John)

L1.ADD Johnny ->

John

L1.UPDATE Jon -> John
L2.UPDATE John

-> Jonathan,

Johnny,

Jon

if we later find that John is equivalent to, say, Jonny, we'll need to look up the names in L1 and L2 and
merge together all the names that are equivalent to them.

This will work, but it’s unnecessarily complicated to keep track of these two lists.
Instead, we can think of these names as “equivalence classes.’ When

we find a pair (Jonathan, John), we put

these in the same set (or equivalence classes). Each name maps to its equivalence class. All items in the set
map to the same instance ofthe set.
If we need to merge two sets, then we copy One set into the other and update the hash table to point to

the new set.
READ

(Jonathan,

John)

CREATE Seti = Jonathan,
L1.ADD Jonathan
L1.ADD John

READ

(Jon,

John

-> Seti

-> Set1

Johnny)

CREATE Set2 = Jon,
L1,ADD Jon

Johnny

-> Set2

L1.ADD Johnny -> Set2

READ

(Johnny,

John)

COPY Set2 into Set1.

Set1 = Jonathan,

John,

LI.UPDATE

Jon

L1.UPDATE

Johnny -> Seti

Jon,

Johnny

-> Set1

in the last step above, we iterated through all items in Set
2 and updated the reference to point to Set1.
As we do this, we keep track of the total frequency of names.
1

HashMap<String,

Integer> trulyMostPopular(HashMap<String,

2

Integer> names,

String[][] synonyms) {

5)

/* Parse list and initialize equivalence classes.*/

4

HashMap<String,

NameSet> groups = constructGroups (names) ;

5

6

/* Merge equivalence classes together.

7

mergeClasses(groups,

*/

synonyms)
;

8

9

/* Convert

18

return convert ToMap(groups ) ;

back to hash map.

*/

11
}
12

13

/* This is the core of the algorithm.

Read through each pair.

44

* equivalence classes and update the mapping of the

15

* the first set.*/

16

void mergeClasses(HashMap<String,

y
18

for (String[] entry :

NameSet> groups, String{][]

synonyms) {

String name1 = entry[®@];

ie

String name2 = entry[1];

22

NameSet setl = groups.get(namel1)
;

542

secondary

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Merge their
class to point to

synonyms) {

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
ai

NameSet set2 = groups.get(name2);

22

if

(seti

!= set2)

{

23

/* Always merge the smaller set into the bigger one.

24

NameSet smaller = set2.size()

setl.size()

? set2

25

NameSet bigger = set2.size() < setl.size()

? set1l

<

*/

:
:

set;
set2;

26

27

/* Merge lists */

28

Set<String> otherNames = smaller.getNames();

a

int frequency = smaller.getFrequency();

38

bigger .copyNamesWithFrequency(otherNames, frequency)
;

31

32

/* Update mapping */

33

for (String name

: otherNames) {
groups.put(name,
bigger);

34.
35

}

36

}

37

}

38}
39

4g

/*

41

*

42

Read through
NameSets

(name,

frequency)

pairs

initialize a mapping of names to

HashMap<String, NameSet> constructGroups(HashMap<String,

43

HashMap<String,

4A.

for (Entry<String, Integer> entry :

45

String name = entry.getKey();

NameSet> groups = new HashMap<String,

46

int frequency = entry.getValue();

A?

NameSet group = new NameSet(name,

48

groups.put(name,

49

}

53

return groups;

51

and

(equivalence classes).*/

Integer> names) {
NameSet>();

names.entrySet()) {

frequency)
;

group);

}

52

53

HashMap<String, Integer> convertToMap(HashMap<String,

54

HashMap<String,

55

for

56

Integer>

(NameSet group

list = new HashMap<String,

: groups.values())

list. put (group.getRootName(),

57

}

58

return

NameSet> groups)

{

Integer>();

{

group.getFrequency());

list;

59
}

53

61

public class NameSet {

62

private Set<String>

63

private int frequency = 0;

64

private String rootName;

names

= new HashSet<String>();

65

6%

public NameSet(String name,

67

names .add(name) ;

68

frequency = freq;

68

7®

rootName

int freq)

{

= name;

}

74

72

public void

73
74

4S

copyNamesWithFrequency(Set<String> more,

int freq)

{

names .addAl1(more) ;
frequency += freq;

i

78

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

543

Solutions to Chapter 17 { Hard
77

public Set<String> getNames()

{

78

public String getRootName()

return

79

public int getFrequency()

88

81

public int size()

{

return names;

}

rootName;

{ return frequency;

{ return names.size();

}

}

}

}

The runtime of the algorithm is a bit tricky to figure out. One way to think about it is to think about what
the worst case is.

For this algorithm, the worst case is where all names are equivalent—and we have to constantly merge sets
together. Also, for the worst case, the merging should come in the worst possible way: repeated pairwise
merging of sets. Each merging requires copying the set's elements into an existing set and updating the
pointers from those items. It’s slowest when the sets are larger.

If you notice the parallel with merge sort (where you have to merge single-element arrays into two-element
arrays, and then two-element arrays into four-element arrays, until finally having a full array), you might

guess it’sO(N log N). That is correct.
If you don't notice that parallel, here’s another way to think about it.

imagine we had the names (a,b, c,d, . . ., Z). In our worst case, we'd first pair up the items into equivalence

classes: (a, b), (c, d), (e, F), ..., (y, 2). Then, we’d merge pairs of those: (a, b, c, d), (e, f, g, h),

..., (W, X,Y,

z). We'd continue doing this until we wind up with just one class.
At each “sweep” through the list where we merge sets together, half of the items get moved into a new set.

This takes O(N) work per sweep. (There are fewer sets to merge, but each set has grown larger.)
How many sweeps do we do? At each sweep, we have half as many sets as we did before. Therefore, we do

O(log N) sweeps.
Since we're doing O(log N) sweeps and O(N) work per sweep, the total runtime isO(N log N).
This is pretty good, but let’s see if we can make it even faster.

Optimized Solution
To optimize the old solution, we should think about what exactly makes it slow. Essentially, it’s the merging
and updating of pointers.
So what if we just didn’t do that? What if we marked that there was an equivalence relationship between
two names, but didn't actually do anything with the information yet?

Inthis case, we'd be building essentially a graph.

Kari

Carlton

Ces

Now what? Visually, it seems easy enough. Each component is an equivalent set of names. We just need to
group the names by their component, sum up their frequencies, and returna
name from each group.

544

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

list with onearbitrarily chosen

Solutions to Chapter 1 7 | Hard
in practice, how does this work? We could pick a name and do a depth-first (or breadth-first) search to sum
the frequencies of all the names in one component. We would have to make sure that we hit each compo-

nent exactly once. That’s easy enough to achieve: mark a node as visited after it’s discovered in the graph
search, and only start the search for nodes where visited is false.
1

HashMap<String,

Integer> trulyMostPopular(HashMap<String,

2

String[][]

E

/* Create data. */

4

Graph graph = constructGraph(names)
;

5

ConnectEdges(graph, Synonyms);

Integer> names,

synonyms) {

6

?

/* Find components.

8

HashMap<String, Integer> rootNames = getTrueFrequencies
(graph) ;

iS)
1@

*/

return rootNames;
+}

dl

12

/* Add

13

Graph constructGraph(HashMap<String, Integer> names) {

all names to graph as

14

Graph graph = new Graph();

15

for (Entry<String,

nodes.

*/

Integer> entry

:

names.entrySet()) {

16

String name = entry.getKey();

ov

int frequency = entry.getValue();

18

graph.createNode(name,

19

}

28

return graph;

frequency)
;

an.
23

/* Connect synonymous spellings.

24

void connectEdges(Graph graph, String[][] synonyms) {

25

for

(String[]

entry

:

*/

synonyms)

26

String name1 = entry[@];

27

String name2 = entry[1];

28

graph.addEdge(name1,

{

name2)
;

29}

30

}

31
32

/*

33

34

Do DFS of each

* has

HashMap<String,

If

HashMap<String,

36

for

Integer>

(GraphNode node

if

a

node

has

been visited

rootNames = new HashMap<String,

: graph.getNodes())

(!node.isVisited())

{ // Already visited this

int frequency = getComponentFrequency
(node) ;

39

String name = node.getName()
;

rootNames.put(name,

41

then

its

component

Integer>();

{

38
46

before,

*/

Integer> getTrueFrequencies(Graph graph) {

35
37

component.

already been computed.

component

frequency)
;

}

42

}

43

return

rootNames
;

44
}
45
46

47
48

43

/* Do depth-first

search to find the total frequency of this

component,

and mark

TM* each node as visited.*/
int getComponentFrequency(GraphNode

if (node.isVisited())

return @;

node)

{

// Already visited

58

ou

node.setIisVisited(true)
;

52

int

sum = node.getFrequency()
;

CrackingTheCodinginterview,com | 6th Edition

545

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
53

for (GraphNode child

54

: node.getNeighbors()) {

sum += getComponentFrequency(
child) ;

55

';

56

return

sum;

}

57
58

59

/* Code for GraphNode and Graph is fairly self-explanatory,

6@

but can be found in

* the downloadable code solutions
.*/

To analyze the efficiency, we can think about the efficiency of each part of the algorithm.
-

Reading in the data is linear with respect to the size of the data, so it takesO(B + P) time, where B is the
number of baby names and P is the number of pairs of synonyms. This is because we only do a constant
amount of work per piece of input data.

-

Tocompute the frequencies, each edge gets “touched” exactly once across all of the graph searches and
each node gets touched exactly once to check if it’s been visited.
The time of this partisO(B + P).

Therefore, the total time of the algorithm isO(B

+

P).Weknow we cannot do better than this since we

must at least read intheB + P pieces of data.

17.8

Circus Tower: A circus is designing a tower routine consisting of people standing atop one another’s
shoulders. For practical and aesthetic reasons, each person must be both shorter and lighter than

the person below him or her. Given the heights and weights of each person in the circus, write a
method to compute the largest possible number of people in such a tower.
pg 187
SOLUTION

When we cut out all the “fluff”
to this problem, we can understand that the problem is really the following.
We have a list of pairs of items. Find the longest sequence such that both the first and second items are in nondecreasing order.

One thing we might first try is sorting the items on an attribute. This is useful actually, but it won't get us all
the way there.

By sorting the items by height, we have a relative order the items must appear in. We still need to find the

longest increasing subsequence of weight though.

Solution 1: Recursive

One approach is to essentially try all possibilities. After sorting by height, we iterate through the array. At
each element, we branch into two choices: add this element to the subsequence (if it’s valid) or do not.
ArrayList<HtWt> longestIncreasingSeq(ArrayList<Htwt> items)

1

{

Collections.sort(items) ;

2

3

return bestSegAtIndex(items,

new ArrayList<HtWt>(),

6);

}

4
5

6

ArrayList<HtWt> bestSegAtIndex(ArrayList<HtWt> array, ArrayList<HtWt> sequence,

7

int index)

8

if (index >= array.size())

9

18

HtWt value = array.get(index)
;

ii

546

{

return sequence;

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
42

ArrayList<HtWt> bestWith = null;

13

if (canAppend(sequence,

value))

{

i4

ArrayList<Htwt> sequenceWith = (ArrayList<HtWt>) sequence.clone();

16

bestWith = bestSegAtIndex(array, sequencewith, index + 1);

45

sequencewWith.add(value) ;

say

}

18

29

ArrayList<HtwWwl> bestwithout = bestSegAtindex(array, sequence, index + 1);

28

24

if (bestWith == null

22

return

23

} else {

24

bestWithout.size() > bestWith.size()) {

return bestWith;

25
326

||

bestWithout
;

}
}

27

28

boolean canAppend(ArrayList<HtWt> solution, HtWt value)

29

if (solution == null)

39

if (solution.size()

{

return false;

== @)

return true;

31

32

HtWt last = solution.get(solution.size()

33

return last.isBefore(value)
;

34

- 1);

}

35

36

ArrayList<HtWt> max(ArrayList<HtwWt> seql,

37

if (seql == null)

38

return

3S

} else if

48

return

41

{

seq2;

(seq2 == null)

{

seql;

}

42

43

ArrayList<HtWt> seq2)

{

return seqi.size()

>

seq2.size()

> seql

:

seq2;

}

44,

45
46

public class HtWt implements Comparable<HtwWt> {
private int height;

47

private int weight;

43

public HtWt(int h,

int w) { height = h; weight = w;

}

49

56

public int compareTo(HtwWt second)

51

if

(this.height

52

return

=)

} else {

54

return

5D

56

{

! = second.height)

{

((Integer)this.height)
.
compareTo(second.height ) ;

((Integer)this.weight).compareTo(second.weight)
;

}

}

57

5g

/* Returns true if “this” should be lined up before “other”.

25)

* possible that this.isBefore(other) and other.isBefore(this) are both false.

69
61

* This

62

if

63

where if a <

b then b > a.

*/

{

(height < other.height && weight < other.weight)

{

return true;

64

} else {

65

return

&6
6?

is different from the compareTo method,

public boolean isBefore(HtWt other)

Note that it’s

false;

}
}

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

547

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
68
}
This algorithm will take 0(2") time. We can optimize it using memoization (that is, caching the best

sequences).
There's a cleaner way to do this though.

Solution #2: Iterative
Imagine we had the longest subsequence that terminates with each element, A[Q@] through A[ 3]. Could
we use this to find the longest subsequence that terminates with A[ 4
Array:

13,

14,

10,

11,

]?

12

Longest(ending with A[@]):

13

Longest(ending with A[1]):

13,

Longest(ending with A[2]):

10

14

Longest (ending with A[3]):

10,

11

Longest (ending with A[4]):

10,

11,

12

Sure. We just append A[ 4] on to the longest subsequence that it can be appended to.
This is now fairly straightforward to implement.
ArrayList<HtWt> longestIncreasingSeq(ArrayList<HtWt> array)

{

Collections.sort (array) ;

ArrayList<ArrayList<HtWt>> solutions =
ArrayList<HtWt>
/*

new ArrayList<ArrayList<HtwWt>>();

bestSequence = null;

Find the longest

subsequence that terminates with each element.

* longest overall subsequence as we go.
for

(int

i = @;

i < array.size();

i++)

{

ArrayList<HtWt> longestAtIndex = bestSeqAtIndex(array,
solutions.add(i,

Track the

*/
solutions,

i);

longestAtIndex)
;

bestSequence = max(bestSequence,

longestAtIndex)
;

}
return bestSequence;

16
}
18

/* Find the longest subsequence which terminates with this element.

19

ArrayList<HtWt> bestSeqAtIndex(ArrayList<HtWt> array,

20

ArrayList<ArrayList<HtWt>>

24

HtWt value = array.get(index)
;

solutions,

int index)

*/

{

22.

23

ArrayList<HtWt> bestSequence = new ArrayList<HtwWt>()
;

24

eS

/*

26

for

Find the longest
(int i = @;

i

2?

ArrayList<HtWt>

28

if

29

i++)

solution =

(canAppend(solution,

{

solutions.get(i);

value))

bestSequence = max(solution,

38

31

subsequence that we can append this element to.

< index;

{
bestSequence)
;

}

}

32
33

/* Append element.

34

ArrayList<HtWt> best = (ArrayList<HtWt>)

*/

35

best.add(value)
;

36

548

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

bestSequence.clone()
;

*/

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
37

return

best;

38}

This algorithm operates inO(n?) time. AnOQ(n log(n) ) algorithm does exist, but it is considerably more
complicated and it is highly unlikely that you would derive this in an interview—even with some help.

However, if you are interested in exploring this solution, a quick internet search will turn up a number of
explanations of this solution.

17.9

Kth Multiple: Design an algorithm to find the kth number such that the only prime factors are 3, 5,
and 7. Note that 3, 5, and 7 do not have to be factors, but it should not have any other prime factors.

For example, the first several multiples would be (in order) 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 15, 21.
pg 187
SOLUTION

Let's first understand what this problem is asking for. It’s asking for the kth smallest number that is in the

form 32 * 5° * 7°, Let's start with a brute force way of finding this.

Brute Force

We know that biggest this kth number could be is 3" *
compute 3? *

5° *

5*

*

7*. So, the“stupid” way of doing this is to

7* forall values of a,b, and c between @ and k. We can throw them all into a list, sort

the list, and then pick the kth smallest value.
4

int getKthMagicNumber(int k)

{

2

ArrayList<Integer> possibilities = allPossibleKFactors(k)
;

3

Collections.sort(possibilities)
;

4

5

return possibilities.get(k);

}

&

7

ArrayList<Integer>

allPossibleKFactors(int

k)

{

8

ArrayList<Integer> values = new ArrayList<Integer>();

)

for

(int a = 0;

a <= k;

a++)

{

1@

int powA = (int) Math.pow(3,

11

for

(int b = @;

b <= k;

12

int powB =

(int)

13

for

= 0;

(int

c

b++)

// loop 3

a);
{

//

Math.pow(5,
c <= k;

c++)

loop 5

b);
{

//

loop 7

i4

int powC = (int) Math.pow(7, c);

15

int value = powA * powB *

powC;

16

i7

/* Check for overflow.

ig

if (value < @ || powA == Integer.MAX_VALUE ||

*/

ig

powB

29

powC == Integer.MAX_VALUE)

ai

== Integer.MAX_VALUE | |

22

}

23

values.add(value)
;

24

}

25

}

26

jf

2?

28

{

value = Integer .MAX_VALUE ;

return

values;

}

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com| 6th Edition

549

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
What is the runtime of this approach? We have nested for loops, each of which runs for k iterations. The

runtime of the allPossibleKFactors is O(k?). Then, we sort the k?_ results inO(k? log (k?)) time

(which is equivalent toO(k? log k) .This gives usa runtime of

O(k? log k).

There are a number of optimizations you could make to this (and better ways of handling the integer overflow), but honestly this algorithm is fairly slow. We should instead focus on reworking the algorithm.

improved
Let’s picture what our results will look like.
1

J

30

*

59

*

72

3

3

See Be me 78

5

5

Baas 622 oP

7

7

32

*

52

*

71

9

3*3

32

*

52

*

72

15

ae

5 ae

1

3*7

31

*

71

25

5*5

Bee 52 4 672

27

B49

ae

35

B87)

Bh) 8s Cy

eh

45

5*9

Bee ar

oe

49

All,

BO

a2

63

3*21

po pac 5) i

*

5@

SOT" 72

Sle

The question is: what is the next value in the list? The next value will be one of these:
+

3*(some previous number in list)

+

5*(some previous number in list)

+

7* (some previous number in list)

If this doesn't immediately
jump out at you, think about it this way: whatever the next value (let's call it nv)

is, divide it by 3. Will that number have already appeared? As long as nv has factors of 3 in it, yes. The same
can be said for dividing it by 5 and 7.

So, we know A, can be expressed as (3,

5 or 7) *(somevaluein {A,,

..., A, ,}).Wealsoknowthat

A, is, by definition, the next number in the list. Therefore, A, will be the smallest“new” number (a number

that it’s already in{A,,

...;, A,,}) that can be formed by multiplying each value in the list by 3, 5 or 7.

How would we find A,? Well, we could actually multiply each number in the list by 3, 5, and 7 and find the

smallest element that has not yet been added to ourlist. This solution is O( k?). Not bad, but | think we can
do better.
Rather than A, trying to“pull” from a previous element in the list (by multiplying all of them by 3, 5 and 7),
we can think about each previous value in the list as “pushing” out three subsequent values in the list. That

is, each number A, will eventually be used later in the list in the following forms:
-3*A,

-

5S*A

-7*A,

550

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
We can use this thought to plan in advance, Each time we add a number A, to the list, we hold on to the

va)ues 3A;1 oA, and 7A, in some sort of temporary list. To generate A, ,, we search through this temporary
list to find the smallest value.

Our code looks like this:
1

int removeMin(Queue<Integer> q)

2

int min = q.peek();

3

for (integer v

4

:

q)

{

{

if (min > v) {
min = V3

&

6

}

y/

8

while

7)

(q.contains(min))

18

}

11

return min;

12

{

q.remove(min)
;

}

13

14

void addProducts(Queue<Integer> gq,

15

q.add(v * 3);

16

q.add(v * 5);

17
18

int v)

{

q.add(v * 7);
}

ES)

28

int getKthMagicNumber(int k)

21

if (k < @)

{

return @;

22

23

int val = 1;

24

Queue<Integer> q = new LinkedList<Integer>();

25

addProducts(q,

26

for (int i = 0;

27

i < k;

i++)

{

val = removeMin(q);

28

addProducts(q, val);

2g

}

32

31

1);

return val;

}

This algorithm is certainly much, much better than our first algorithm, but it’s still not quite perfect.

Optimal Algorithm

To generate a new element A,, we are searching through a linked list where each element looks like one of:
+

3* previous element

5 * previous element
»

7* previous element

Where is there unnecessary work that we might be able to optimize out?
Let's imagine our list looks like:

q, = {7A,, 5A,, 7A,, 27 7A 37 3A,

SA,,

7A44

5A,, 5?

7A.}

When we search this list for the min, we check if 7A, < min, and then later we check if 7A, < min. That
seems sort of silly, doesn’t it? Since we know that A,

<

A,, we should only need to check 7A,,

if we separated the list from the beginning by the constant factors, then we'd only need to check the first of
the multiples of 3, 5 and 7. All subsequent elements would be bigger.

CrackingTheCodinglnterview.com | 6th Edition

551

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
That is, our list above would look like:
Q36 = {3A}
Q56 = {5A,,

5A,,

5A}

Q76 = {7A,,

7A,,

7A,,

7A,

7A}

To get the min, we only need to look at the fronts of each queue:

y = min(Q3.head(), Q5.head(), Q7.head())
Once we Compuie y, we need to insert 3y into Q3, 5y intoQ5, and /y into Q7. But, we only want to insert

these elements if they aren't already in another list.
Why might, for example, 3y already be somewhere in the holding queues? Well, if y was pulled from Q7,

then that means that y = 7x, forsome smaller x. If 7x is the smallest value, we must have already seen 3x.
And what did we do when we saw 3x? We inserted 7 * 3x intoQ7.Note that7 * 3x = 3 * 7x = 3y.

To put this another way, if we pull an element from Q7, it will looklike 7 * suffix, and we know we have
already handled 3 * suffixand5S * suffix.In handling 3 * suffix,weinserted7 * 3 * suffix
intoaQ7.AndinhandlingS * suffix, we knowwe inserted 7 * 5 * suffix in Q7. The only value we
haven't seen yet is 7 * 7 * suffix, so we justinsert7

*

7

*

suffix intoQ7.

Let’s walk through this with an example to make it really clear.
initialize:
Q3 = 3
Q5 =5
Q7 = 7

remove min = 3.

insert 3*3 in Q3,

5*3 into Q5,

7*3 into Q7.

Q3 = 3*3
Q5 = 5,

5*3

Q7 = 7,

7*3

remove min = 5.

3*5 is

a dup,

since we already did 5*3.

insert

5*5 into Q5,

7*5

into Q7.

Q3 = 3*3
QS = 5*3,
Q7 =:7,

remove min = 7.

5*5

773,

7*5.

3*7 and 5*7 are dups,

since we already did 7*3 and 7*5.

insert 7*7

into Q7.
Q3 = 3*3
QS = 5*3,

5*5

Q7 = 7*3,

7*5,

remove min = 3*3 = 9.

7*7

insert 3*3*3 in Q3,

3*3*5 into Q5,

3*3*7 into Q7.

Q3 = 3*3*3

Q5 = 5*3,

5*5,

5*3*3

Q7 = 7*3,

7*5,

7*7,

remove min = 5*3 = 15.
5*5*3 in Q5,

7*3*3

3*(5*3) is a dup,

since we already did 5*(3*3).

insert

7*5*3 into Q7.

Q3 = 3*3*3
Q5 = 5*5,

5*3*3,

OW Ss 3,

PS,

remove min = 7*3 = 21.
and 7*(5*3).

5*5*3

FU,

73°35

3*(7*3)

7 S°2

and 5*(7*3)

insert 7*7*3 into Q7.

Os = Ss
Q5 = 5*5,

5*3*3,

OY Ss PS

P75

5*5*3

Peskes,

Psyy 1/3}

Our pseudocode for this problem is as follows:
1. Initialize array and queues Q3, Q5, and Q7

552

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

are dups,

since we already did 7*(3*3)

WN

insert 1 into array.

B

Let x be the minimum element in Q3, Q5, and Q7. Append x to magic.

mn

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard

lf x was found in:

Insert 1* 3, 1*5 and 1*7 into Q3, Q5, and Q7 respectively.

Q3 -> append x*3, x*5 and x*7 to Q3, Q5, and Q7. Remove x from Q3.
Q5 -> append x*5 and x*7 to Q5 and Q7. Remove x from QS.
Q7 -> only append x*7 to Q7. Remove x from Q7.

6. Repeat steps 4 - 6 until we've found Kk elements.
The code below implements this algorithm.
1

int getKthMagicNumber(int k) {

2

if (k < @) {

3

return @;

2

t

6
?

Queue<Integer> queue3 = new LinkedList<Integer>();
Queue<Integer> queueS5 = new LinkedList<Integer>();

8

Queue<Integer> queue7 = new LinkedList<Integer>();

g

queue3.add(1);

5

int val = @;

18

i1

/* Include @th through kth iteration */

12

for (int i = 0;

i <= k;

i++) {

i3

int v3 = queue3.size() > @ ? queue3.peek()

:

Integer .MAX_VALUE;

14

int v5 = queue5.size()

> @ ? queue5.peek()

:

Integer .MAX_VALUE;

45

int v7 = queue7.size()

> @ ? queue7.peek()

:

Integer.MAX_ VALUE;

le

val = Math.min(v3, Math.min(v5, v7));

17

if (val == v3)

{ // enqueue into queue 3,

ig

queue3.remove();

19

queue3.add(3 * val);

2@

queueS.add(5 * val);

24

} else if (val == v5) { // enqueue into queue 5 and 7

22

queueS.remove();

23

queue5.add(5 * val);

24

} else if (val == v7)

25

queue7.remove();

26

}

27

queue7.add(7 * val);

28

{ // enqueue into Q7

// Always enqueue

into Q7

}

29

38

5 and 7

return val;

}

When you get this question, do your best to solve it—even though it’s really difficult.
You can start with a

brute force approach (challenging, but not quite as tricky), and then you can start trying to optimize it. Or,
try to find a pattern in the numbers.
Chances are that your interviewer will help you along when you get stuck. Whatever you do, don’t give up!

Think out loud, wonder out loud, and explain your thought process. Your interviewer will probably jump in
to guide you.

Remember, perfection on this problem is not expected. Your performance is evaluated in comparison to
other candidates. Everyone struggles on a tricky problem.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

553

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
17.10 Majority Element: A majority element is an element that makes up more than half of the items in
an array. Given a positive integers array, find the majority element. If there is no majority element,

return -1, Do this inO(N) time and O(1) space.
Input:

12 'S"9 5595
3-5

Output:

5

pg 187
SOLUTION

Let's start off with an example:
31713737177

One thing we can notice here is that if the majority element (in this case 7) appears less often in the beginning, it must appear much more often toward the end. That's a good observation to make.

This interview question specifically requires us to do this in O(N) time and0O(1) space. Nonetheless, sometimes it can be useful to relax one of those requirements and develop an algorithm. Let's try relaxing the

time requirement but staying firm on the 0(1) space requirement.
Solution #1 (Slow)

One simple way to do this is to just iterate through the array and check each element for whether it’s the

majority element. This takes O(N?) time and O(1) space.
L

int findMajorityElement(int[]

2

for (int x

3

if

4

:

array)

{

{

(validate(array,
return

5
6

array)

x))

{

xX;

}

i

?

return

8

-1;

}

S

18

boolean validate(int[]

11

int

12

for (int n:

13

array,

int majority)

{

= @;

array)

{

if (n == majority) {

14

count++};

15
16

count

}
}

1?

18

return count > array.length / 2;

ihe)

This does not fit the time requirements of the problem, but it is potentially a starting point. We can think
about optimizing this.
Solution #2 (Optimal)

Let’s think about what that algorithm did on a particular example. Is there anything we can get rid of?

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

a

|v to

10

In the very first validation pass, we select 3 and validate it as the majority element. Several elements later,
we've still counted just one 3 and several non-3 elements. Do we need to continue checking for 3?

554

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 17 |Hard
On one hand, yes. 3 could redeem itself and be the majority element, if there are a bunch of 3s later in the
array.

On the other hand, not really. If 3 does redeem itself, then we'll encounter those 3s later on, in a subsequent

validation step. We could terminate this validate(3) step.
That logic is fine for the first element, but what about the next one? We would immediately terminate

validate(1), validate(7), and soon.
Since the logic was okay for the first element, what if we treated all subsequent elements like they're the
first element of some new subarray? This would mean that we start validate(array[1]) at index 1,
validate(array|[2])

at index 2, and so on.

What would this look like?
->

countYes

1,

countNo

WW

1

->

countYes

1,

countNo

TERMINATE.

©

3

sees

Ss

sees

i]

validate(3)

3 is not majority thus far.

->

countYes

= @,

countNo

->

countYes

= 1,

countNo

TERMINATE.

1

©

1

sees 7

RP

sees

Wel

validate(1)

is not majority thus far.

->

countYes

= 1,

countNo

1

->

countYes

=

countNo

TERMINATE.

1,

©

7

sees

RP

sees

ol

validate(7)

7 is not majority thus far.

validate(1)
sees

1

->

countYes

= 1,

countNo

= 9

sees 1

->

countYes

= 2,

countNo

= @

sees 7 -> countYes

= 2,

countNo = 1

countYes = 2,

countNo = 1

sees 7 ->

TERMINATE.

1 is not majority thus far.

sees

1

->

countYes

= 1,

countNo

W

©

sees

7

->

countYes

1,

countNo

i}

Ss

validate(1)

TERMINATE.

1 is not majority thus far.

validate(7)
sees 7

->

countYes

=

1,

countNo

= @

sees 7

->

countYes

= 2,

countNo

= @

sees 3

-> countYes

= 2,

countNo = 1

sees 7

-> countYes

= 3,

countNo = 1

sees 7

->

countYes = 4,

countNo

= 1

sees 7

->

countYes

countNo

= 1

= 5,

Do we know at this point that 7 is the majority element? Not necessarily. We have eliminated everything

before that 7, and everything after it. But there could be no majority element. A quick validate(7) pass
that starts from the beginning can confirm if 7 is actually the majority element. This validate step will be
O(N) time, which is also our Best Conceivable Runtime. Therefore, this final validate step won't impact
our total runtime.
This is pretty good, but let’s see if we can make this a bit faster. We should notice that some elements are

being “inspected” repeatedly. Can we get rid of this?
Look
at the first validate (3). This fails after the subarray [3, 1],because 3 was not the majority element.
But because validate fails the instant an element is not the majority element, it also means nothing else

in that subarray was the majority element. By our earlier logic, we dont need to call validate(1).We
know that 1 did not appear more than half the time. If it is the majority element, itll pop up later.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

555

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
Let’s try this again and see if it works out.
validate(3)
sees 3 -> countYes = 1,

countNo = 6

sees 1

countNo = 1

-> countYes = 1,

TERMINATE.

3 is not majority thus far.

skip 1
validate(7)
sees

7 -> countYes = 1,

countNo = @

sees

1

countNo = 1

->

TERMINATE.

countYes

= 1,

7 is not majority thus far.

skip 1
validate(1)
sees

1

->

countYes = 1,

countNo = @

sees 7

->

countYes = 1,

countNo = 1

TERMINATE.

1 is not majority thus far.

skip 7

validate(7)
sees

7

sees 3

->

= 1,

countNo = @

-> countYes = 1,

countNo = 1

TERMINATE.

countYes

7 is not majority thus far.

skip 3

validate(7)
sees 7 ->

countYes

= 1,

sees 7 -> countYes

= 2,

countNo = @

countNo = @

sees 7 -> countYes = 3,

countNo = 9

Good! We got the right answer. But did wejust get lucky?
We should pause fOr a moment to think what this algorithm is doing.
1.

We start off with [3] and we expand the subarray until 3 is no longer the majority element. We fail at
[3,

1]. Atthe moment we fail, the subarray can have no majority element.

Then we goto [7] and expand until [7,

1]. Again, we terminate and nothing could be the majority

element in that subarray.

We move to [1] and expandto [1,

We goto [7] andexpandto[7,

7].Weterminate. Nothing there could be the majority element.

3].Weterminate. Nothing there could be the majority element.

. We go to [7] and expand until the end of the array: [7,

7,

7].We have found the majority element

(and now we must validate that).
Each time we terminate the validate step, the subarray has no majority element. This means that there
are at least as many non-7s as there are 7s. Although we're essentially removing this subarray from the
original array, the majority element will still be found in the rest of the array—and will still have majority
status. Therefore, at some point, we will discover the majority element.

Our algorithm can now be run in two passes: one to find the possible majority element and another to validate it. Rather than using two variables to count (countYes and countNo), we'll just use a single count

ww WH MUIR
Ww PR

variable that increments and decrements.
int findMajorityElement(int[] array)

{

int candidate = getCandidate(array);
return validate(array,

candidate)

}
int getCandidate(int[] array) {
int majority = 0;

556

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

> candidate

:

-1;

2

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard

8

int count = @;

9

for (int n

18

:

array)

{

if (count == @) { // No majority element in previous set.

Li

majority =n;

12

}

Le

if (n == majority)

14

15

} else {

16

count
- - ;

ivi

}

12

}

i8

220

{

count++;

return majority;

}

21

22

boolean validate(int[]

array,

23

int count = @;

24.

for (int n : array) {

25

int majority)

{

if (n == majority) {

36

count++;

27

}

28

}

29

38

31

return count >

array.length / 2;

}

This algorithm runs in O(N) time and O(1) space.

17.11

Word Distance: You have a large text file containing words. Given any two words, find the shortest
distance (in terms of number of words) between them in the file. If the operation will be repeated

many times for the same file (but different pairs of words), can you optimize your solution?
pg 187

SOLUTION

We will assume for this question that it doesn’t matter whether word1 or word2 appears first. This is a question you should ask your interviewer.
To solve this problem, we can traverse the file just once. We remember throughout our traversal where

we've last seen word1 and word2, storing the locations in location1 and locationz2. If the current
locations are better than our best known location, we update the best locations.
The code below implements this algorithm.
1

2

LocationPair findClosest(String[] words,

String word1,

LocationPair best = new LocationPair(-1,

3

LocationPair current = new LocationPair(-1,

4

for (int i = 0;

i < words.length;

5

String word = words[i];

6

if (word.equals(word1)) {

7

current.locationl

8

best .updateWithMin(
current ) ;

g

} else if

48

{

-1);

{

= i;

(word.equals(word2))

{

current.location2 = i;

44

best.updatewithMin(current);

12

13

i++)

String word2)

-1);

// If shorter,

update values

}

}

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

557

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
14

15

return best;

}

16

17

public class

LocationPair {

18

public int location1,

1S

public

28

location2;

LocationPair(int first,

setLocations(first,

int second)

{

second);

}

La
22

23

public void setLocations(int first,

24

int second)

{

this.locationi = first;

25

this.location2 = second;

26

}

27

28

public void

29

setLocations(LocationPair loc)

setLocations(loc.location1,

38

{

loc.location2)
;

}

34

32

public int distance()

33

{

return Math.abs(location1 -

location2)
;

}

34
35

36

public boolean isValid() {

37

return locationi >= © && location2 >= Q;

33

}

39

42

public void updateWithMin(LocationPair loc)

Al

if (!isValid()

42

||

{

loc.distance() < distance()) {

setLocations(loc);

43

}

44,

}

ae

If we need to repeat the operation for other pairs of words, we can create a hash table that maps from each
word to the locations where it occurs. We'll only need to read through the list of words once. After that
point, we can doa

very similar algorithm but just iterate through the locations directly.

Consider the following lists of locations.
listA:

{1,

2,

listB:

{4,

10,

9,

15,

25}

19}

Picture pointers pA and pB that point to the beginning of each list. Our goal is to make pA and pB point to
values as close together as possible.

The first potential pair is (1, 4).
What is the next pair we can find? If we moved pB, then the distance would definitely get larger. If we
moved pA, though, we might get a better pair. Let’s do that.

The second potential pair is (2, 4). This is better than the previous pair, so let’s record this as the best pair.
We move pA again and get (9, 4). This is worse than we had before.
Now, since the value at pA is bigger than the one at PB, we move pB.
We get (9,
Next we get (15,

10),then(15,

19),then(25,

19).

We can implement this algorithm as shown below.
1

LocationPair findClosest(String word1,

558

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

String word2,

10).

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
a

HashMapList<String,

Integer> locations)

3

ArrayList<Integer> locations1 = locations.get(word1)
;

4

ArrayList<Integer> locations2 = locations.get(word2)
;

5

return findMinDistancePair(locations1, locations2)
;

{

mh:
7

8

LocationPair findMinDistancePair(ArrayList<Integer> array],

9

16

ArrayList<Integer> array2) {
|| array2 == null || arrayl.size() == @ ||

if (arrayl == null

11

array2.size()

12

== 6)

{

return null;

13

}

14

15

int

index1

Q;

16

int

index2

= 9;

aie

LocationPair best = new LocationPair(array1.get(@), array2.get(@));

18

LocationPair current = new LocationPair(array1.get(@),

array2.get(@));

19

20

while

(index1 <

array1.size()

&& index2 <

array2.size())

21

current .setLocations(array1.get(index1),

On

best .updateWithMin(current);

23

if

24

//

{

array2.get(index2));

If shorter,

update values

(current.location1 < current.location2) {
index1++;

lbs,

} else {

26

index2++;

2?

}

28

}

23

38

31

return

best;

}

32

33

/* Precomputation.

34

HashMapList<String,

*/

Integer> getWordLocations(String[] words)

De

HashMapList<String,

36

for

37

i < words.length;

locations.put(words[i],

{

locations = new HashMapList<String,

i++)

Integer>();

{

i);

}

38
39

4@

(int i = @;

Integer>

return locations;

}

41

42
43

/*

HashMapList<String,

* ArrayList<Integer>.

Integer>

is a HashMap that maps from Strings to

See appendix for implementation.

*/

The precomputation step of this algorithm will take O(N) time, where N is the number of words in the
string.

Finding the closest pair of locations will takeO(A + B) time, where Ais the number of occurrences of the
first word and B is the number of occurrences of the second word.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

559

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
17.12 BiNode: Consider a simple data structure called BiNode, which has pointers to two other nodes. The
data structure BiNode could be used to represent both a binary tree (where node11 is the left node
and node2 is the right node) or a doubly linked list (where node1 is the previous node and node2

is the next node). Implement a method to convert a binary search tree (implemented with

BiNode)

into a doubly linked list. The values should be kept in order and the operation should be performed
in place (that is, on the original data structure).
pg 188

SOLUTION

This seemingly complex problem can be implemented quite elegantly using recursion. You will need to
understand recursion very well to solve it.
Picture a simple binary search tree:

The convert method should transform it into the below doubly linked list:
@<-> 1 <-> 2 <-> 3 <-> 4 <-> 5 <-> 6
Let's approach this recursively, starting with the root (node 4).
We know that the left and right halves of the tree form their own “sub-parts” of the linked list (that is, they

appear consecutively in the linked list). So, if we recursively converted the left and right subtrees to a doubly
linked list, could we build the final linked list from those parts?

Yes! We would simply merge the different parts.
The pseudocode looks something like:
1

BiNode convert(BiNode node)

2

{

BiNode left = convert(node. left);

3

BiNode right = convert(node.right);

4

mergeLists(left,

5

return left;

6

node,

right);

// front of left

4}

To actually implement the nitty-gritty details of this, we'll need to get the head and tail of each linked list.
We can do this several different ways.

Solution #1: Additional Data Structure

The first, and easier, approach is to create a new data structure called NodePair which holds just the head
and tail of a linked list. The convert method can then return something of type NodePair.
The code below implements this approach.
i

private class NodePair {

560

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
p)

BiNode head, tail;

3
4

public NodePair(BiNode head,

6

7
B

BiNode tail)

{

this.head = head;

5

this.tail = tail;

}
fF

9

1@

public NodePair convert(BiNode root)

11

if

{

(root == null) return null;

12

NodePair part1
NodePair part2

13
14

convert
(root
.node1) ;

convert
(root
.node2) ;

415

16

if (parti

17

!=null) {

concat(parti.tail,

18

root);

}

19

20

if (part2

Py

!=null) {

concat(root,

22

part2.head);

}

23

24

return new NodePair(part1 == null ? root :

25

part2 == null ? root :

26

parti.head,

part2.tail);

}

2?

28

public static void

23

xX.node2 = y;

38

y.nodel = x;

concat(BiNode x,

BiNode y)

{

31}

The above code still converts the BiNode data structure in place. We're just using NodePair as a way to
return additional data. We could have alternatively used a two-element BiNode array to fulfill the same
purposes, but it looks a bit messier (and we like clean code, especially in an interview).
It'd be nice, though, if we could do this without these extra data structures—and we can.

Solution #2: Retrieving the Tail

Instead of returning the head and tail of the linked list with NodePair, we can return just the head, and
then we can use the head to find the tail of the linked list.
1

BiNode convert(BiNode

2

if (root == null)

root)

{

return null;

3

4

BiNode

5

BiNode part2 = convert(root.node2)
;

part1 = convert(root.node1)
;

6

7

if

8

9

(parti

!=null)

{

concat(getTail(parti1),

root);

}

16

Li

if

12

i

(part2

!=null)

concat(root,

{

part2);

}

14

15

return parti == null

?

root

:

parti;

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

561

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
16

}

17

18

public

static BiNode getTail(BiNode node)

19

if (node == null)

return null;

28

while

!= null) {

21

node = node.node2;

22

}

23

24

(node.node2

{

return node;

}

Other than a call to get Tail, this code is almost identical to the first solution. It is not, however, very effi-

cient. A leaf node at depth d will be “touched” by the getTail method d times (one for each node above

it), leading to an O(N?) overall runtime, where N is the number of nodes in the tree.

Solution #3: Building a Circular Linked List
We can build our third and final approach off of the second one.

This approach requires returning the head and tail of the linked list with BiNode. We can do this by
returning each list as the head of a circutar linked list. To get the tail, then, we simply call head .nodet.
1

BiNode convertToCircular(BiNode root)

a

if

(root == null)

{

return null;

3

4

BiNode parti = convertToCircular(root.node1)
;

5

BiNode part3 = convertToCircular(root.node2)
;

&

7

if (parti == null && part3 == null)

8

root.nodel1 =

3

root.node2 = root;

{

root;

return root;

18

11

}

12

BiNode tail3 =

(part3 == null)

? null

:

part3.node1;

13

14

/* join left to root */

as

if (parti == null)

16

{

concat(part3.node1,

17

root);

} else {

18

concat(parti.node1,

root);

}

19
22

21

/ *join right to root */

22

if

23

(part3

== null)

concat(root,

24

{

parti);

} else {

25

concat(root, part3);

26

}

27

28

/ *join right to left */

23

if

36

(parti

!= null && part3

concat(tail3,

!= null)

{

parti);

}

31

32
33
34

return

partl == null

? root

:

parti;

}

35
36

/

562

*Convert

list to a circular linked list,

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

then break the circular connection.

*/

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
37

BiNode convert(BiNode root) {

38

BiNode head = convertToCircular
(root) ;

39

head.node1.node2 = null;

AQ

head.node1 = null;

Al

42

return head;

}

Observe that we have moved the main parts of the code into convertToCircular. The convert

method calls this method to get the head of the circular linked list, and then breaks the circular connection.
The approach takes O(N) time, since each node is only touched an average of once (or, more accurately,

O(1) times).

17.13

Re-Space: Oh, no! You have accidentally removed all spaces, punctuation, and capitalization ina

lengthy document. A sentence like“I

reset

the

computer.

It

still

didn’t

boot!”

became “iresetthecomputeritstilldidntboot" You'll deal with the punctuation and capitalization later; right now you need to re-insert the spaces. Most of the words are in a dictionary but
a few are not. Given a dictionary (a list of strings) and the document (a string), design an algorithm
to unconcatenate the document in a way that minimizes the number of unrecognized characters.
EXAMPLE

Input:

jesslookedjustliketimherbrother

Output: jess looked just like tim her brother (7 unrecognized characters)
pg 188

SOLUTION

Some interviewers like to cut to the chase and give you the specific problems. Others, though, like to give
you a lot of unnecessary context, like this problem has. It’s useful in such cases to boil down the problem to
what it’s really all about.
In this case, the problem is really about finding a way to break up a string into separate words such that as
few characters as possible are “left out” of the parsing.

Note that we do not attempt to “understand” the string. We could just as well parse “thisisawesome” to
be”"this is a we some”aswecould“this is awesome”
Brute Force

The key to this problem is finding a way to define the solution (that is, parsed string) in terms of its subproblems. One way to do this is recursing through the string.
The very first choice we make is where to insert the first space. After the first character? Second character?
Third character?

Let’s imagine this in terms of a string like thisismikesfavoritefood. What is the first space we insert?
*

If we insert a space after t, this gives us one invalid character.

-

After th is two invalid characters.

»

After thi is three invalid characters.

-

At this we have acomplete word. This is zero invalid characters.

¢

Atthisi is five invalid characters.

-

..andsoon.,

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

563

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
After we choose the first space, we can recursively pick the second space, then the third space, and so on,
until we are done with the string.
We take the best (fewest invalid characters) out of all these choices and return.
What should the function return? We need both the number ofinvalid characters in the recursive path as
well as the actual parsing. Therefore, wejust return both by using a custom-built ParseResult class.
1

String bestSplit(HashSet<String> dictionary,

2

ParseResult r = split(dictionary,

3

return r == null

4

? null

:

String sentence)

sentence,

{

0);

r.parsed;

3

5

6

ParseResult split(HashSet<String> dictionary,

?

if

8

(start

>= sentence.length())

return new ParseResult(@,

9

String sentence,

int start)

{

{

“”);

}

10

ve

int bestIinvalid = Integer .MAX_VALUE ;

12

String bestParsing = null;

13

String partial = “”;

14

int index = start;

15

while (index <

sentence.length())

{

16

char c = sentence.charAt (index) ;

17

partial += Cc;

18

int invalid = dictionary.contains(partial)

Je,

if (invalid < bestInvalid) { // Short circuit

26

/* Recurse,

21

putting a space after this

? ®

:

partial.length();

character.

If this

* the current best option, replace the best option.

22

ParseResult result = split(dictionary,

23

if (invalid + result.invalid < bestInvalid) {

24

bestinvalid = invalid + result.invalid;

25

bestParsing = partial + “ ” + result.parsed;

26

if

27

(bestInvalid

== 6)

break;

//

sentence,

Short

is

better than

*/

index + 1);

circuit

}

28

}

29

30

index++;
}

31

32
33

return new ParseResult(bestinvalid,

bestParsing)
;

}

34

35

public class ParseResult {

36

public int invalid = Integer .MAX_VALUE;

37

public String parsed = “ ”;

38

public ParseResult(int

35

String p)

{

parsed = p;

40
}

Al
42

inv,

invalid = inv;

}

We've applied two short circuits here.
*

Line 22: If the number of current invalid characters exceeds the best known one, then we know this

recursive path will not be ideal. There's no point in even taking it.
*

Line 30: If we have a path with zero invalid characters, then we know we can't do better than this. We
might as well accept this path.

564

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
What's the runtime of this? It’s difficult to truly describe in practice as it depends on the (English) language.
One way of looking at it is to imagine a bizarre language where essentially all paths in the recursion are

taken. In this case, we are making both choices at each character. If there are n characters, this is anO(2")
runtime.

Optimized

Commonly, when we have exponential runtimes for a recursive algorithm, we optimize them through
memoization (that is, caching results).
To do so, we need to find the common subproblems.
Where do recursive paths overlap? That is, where are the common subproblems?

Let's again imagine the string thisismikesfavoritefood. Again, imagine that everything is a valid
word.

In this case, we attempt to insert the first space after t as well as after th (and many other choices). Think
about what the next choice is.
split(thisismikesfavoritefood)

t

->

+ split(hisismikesfavoritefood)

OR th + split(isismikesfavoritefood)
OR

aoc

split (hisismikesfavoritefood)

->

h + split(isismikesfavoritefood)
OR

...

Adding a space after t and h leads to the same recursive path as inserting a space
after
th.
There’s no sense
in computing split (isismikesfavoritefood) twice when it will lead to the same result.

We should instead cache the result. We do this using a hash table which maps from the current substring to
the ParseResult object.
We donttactually need to make the current substring akey. The start indexin the string sufficiently represents

the substring. After all, if we were to use the substring, we'd really be using sentence. substring(start,
sentence. length). This hash table will map from a start index to the best parsing from that index to the
end of the string.
And, since the start index is the key, we don’t need a true hash table at all. We can just use an array of
ParseResult objects. This will also serve the purpose of mapping from an index to an object.

The code is essentially identical to the earlier function, but now takes in a memo table (a cache). We look up
when we first call the function and set it when we return.
1

String bestSplit(HashSet<String> dictionary,

2

ParseResult[]

3

ParseResult r = split(dictionary,

4

return

5

String sentence)

{

memo = new ParseResult[ sentence. length() ];

r == null

?

null

:

sentence,

@,

memo);

r.parsed;

t

6

7

ParseResult split(HashSet<String> dictionary, String sentence,

S)

if (start >= sentence.length()) {

q8

11

int start,

ParseResult[] memo) {

8

return new ParseResult(@,

} if (memo[start]

12

“”);

!= null) {

return memo[start
];

13}

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

565

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
14

15

int bestInvalid = Integer.MAX_VALUE;

16

String bestParsing = null;

17

String partial = “”;

18

int index = start;

19

while (index < sentence.length())

{

28

char c = sentence.charAt (index) ;

21

partial += c;

22

int invalid = dictionary.contains(partial)

23

if (invalid < bestInvalid) { // Short circuit

24

? @ : partial.length();

/* Recurse, putting a space after this character. If this is better than

25

* the current best option,

replace the best option.

26

ParseResult result = split(dictionary,

ae

if (invalid + result.invalid < bestInvalid) {

28

bestInvalid = invalid + result.invalid;

22

bestParsing = partial + “ ” + result.parsed;

36

if (bestInvalid == @)

31

break;

sentence,

*/

index + 1,

memo);

// Short circuit

}

32

}

33

index++;

34
35

}

36

memo[start]

37

return memo[start];

= new ParseResult(bestInvalid,

bestParsing)
;

38}

Understanding the runtime of this is even trickier than in the prior solution. Again, let’s imagine the truly
bizarre case, where essentially everything looks like a valid word.

One way we can approach it is to realize that sp1it(i) will only be computed once for each value of i.
What happens when we call split (i), assuming we've already called split(i+1) through split(n
- 1)?
split(i)

-> calls:

split(i + 1)

split(i + 2)
split(i + 3)

split(i + 4)
split(n -

1)

Each of the recursive calls has already been computed, so they just return immediately. Doingn

atO(1) time each takesO(n

-

We can now apply the same logic to split(i

compute split(n

-

-

i calls

i) time. Thismeans that split(i) takes O(1) time at most.
-

1), split(i

1),2callstocompute split(n

-

-

2), and soon. If we make 1 call to

2),3callstocompute split(n

-

3),..,n

calls to compute split (@), how many calls total do we do? This is basically the sum of the numbers from
1 through n, which is O(n?).

Therefore, the runtime of this function is O(n”).

566

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
17.14 Smallest K: Design an algorithm to find the smallest K numbers in an array.
pg 188
SOLUTION

There are a number of ways to approach this problem. We will go through three of them: sorting, max heap,

and selection rank.
Some ofthese algorithms require modifying the array. This is something you should discuss with your interviewer. Note, though, that even if modifying the original array is not acceptable, you can always clone the
array and modify the clone instead. This will not impact the overall big O time of any algorithm.

Solution 1: Sorting
We can sort the elements in ascending order and then take the first million numbers from that.
int[]

smallestK(int[]

if (k <= @ ||

array,

int k)

{

k > array.length) {

throw new IllegalArgumentException(
);

}
/* Sort array.

*/

Arrays
.sort
(array) ;
/* Copy first k elements.

10

int[]

ii

for (int i = @; i < k;

12

smallest[i]

i++) {

= array[i];

13

}

14

return smallest;

is

*/

smallest = new int[k];

}

The time complexity isO(n

log(n)).

Solution 2: Max Heap
We can use a max heap to solve this problem. We first create a max heap (largest element at the top) for the

first million numbers.
Then, we traverse through the list. On each element, if it’s smaller than the root, we insert it into the heap

and delete the largest element (which will be the root).
At the end ofthe traversal, we will have a heap containing the smallest one million numbers. This algorithm

isO(n
1

log(m) ), where m is the number of values we are looking for.

int[]

2

smallestK({int[]

if (k <= @

3

||

array,

int k) {

k > array.length) {

throw new IllegalArgumentException();

a

}

5

6

PriorityQueue<Integer>

7

return heapToIntArray (heap) ;

heap = getKMaxHeap(array,

8

4}

18

/* Create max heap of smallest k elements.

11

PriorityQueue<iInteger> getKMaxHeap(int[] array,

9

12

PriorityQueue<Integer>

k);

*/

int k)

{

heap =

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

567

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
new PriorityQueue<Integer>(k, new MaxHeapComparator(
)) ;
for (int a

14

if

15
16

:

array)

(heap.size()

{
< k)

{

// If space remaining

heap.add(a)
;

} else if (a < heap.peek())

17

18
19

{ // If full and top is small

heap.poll();

// remove highest

heap.add(a);

// insert new element

t

2e

24

t

22

return heap;

ze
24

25

/* Convert heap to int

26

int[]

array.

*/

heapToIntArray(PriorityQueue<Integer> heap)

27

int[]

array = new int[heap.size()
];

28

while

(!heap.isEmpty())

array{heap.size()

29

{
1]

= heap.polil();

i

28

return array;

31

32

-

{

}

33

34

class MaxHeapComparator implements Comparator<Integer> {
public int compare(Integer x,

35

36

return y

Integer y)

{

X;

}

37

38°

-

}

Java's uses the PriorityQueue class to offer heap-like functionality. By default, it operates as a min heap,
with the smallest element on the top. To switch it to the biggest element on the top, we can pass in a
different comparator.

Approach 3: Selection Rank Algorithm (if elements are unique)
Selection Rank is a well-known algorithm in computer science to find the ith smallest (or largest) element
in an array in linear time.

If the elements are unique, you can find the ith smallest element in expected O(n) time. The basic algorithm operates like this:

1. Pick a random element in the array and use it as a “pivot.” Partition elements around the pivot, keeping
track of the number of elements on the left side of the partition.

2. If there are exactly i elements on the left, then you just return the biggest element on the left.
3. If the left side is bigger than i, repeat the algorithm on just the left part of the array.
4. If the left side is smaller than i, repeat the algorithm on the right, but look for the element with rank
i-leftSize.
Once you have found the ith smallest element, you know that all elements smaller than this will be to the

left of this (since you've partitioned the array accordingly).
You can now just retum the first i elements.
The code below implements this algorithm.
2

int[]

2

smallestK(int[]

array,

int

k)

{

if (k <= 68 ||) k > array.length) {

3

throw new IllegalArgumentException()
;

4

}

5

568

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
°

int threshold = rank(array,

7

int[]

8

int count = @;

S)

for (int a:

19

if

array) {

smallest[count]

12

count++;

= a;

}

14

}

15
i6

1);

(a <= threshold) {

11

13

k -

smallest = new int[k];

return smallest;
}

17

18

/* Get element with rank.

19

int rank(int[] array,

20

return rank(array,

*/

int rank)
@,

{

array-length

-

1,

rank);

21
}
23

/* Get element with rank between

24

int rank(int[] array,

int left,

left

and

int rank)
right)
];

25

int pivot = array[randomIntInRange(left,

26

int leftEnd = partition(array,

27

int leftSize = leftEnd

-

28

if

1)

29

(rank == leftSize -

return max(array,

38

} else if

Gh

(rank <

left, right,

*/

{

pivot);

left + 1;
{

left,

leftEnd);

leftSize)

return rank(array,

right indices.

int right,

left,

{

leftEnd,

rank);

} else {

Syd
23

return

34

rank(array,

leftEnd + 1,

right,

rank -

leftSize);

}

35}
36
37

/* Partition array

38

38

* elements

around

> pivot.

int partition(int[]

48

while

41

array,

(left <= right)

if (array[left]

42

pivot such that all elements

int left,

> pivot)

* should be.

44

swap(array,

as

right--;

46

int right,

/* Right is

Ag

*

left,

{

swap(array,

58

left++;

51

Swap it to the right side,

<= pivot) {

left,

Swap it to the left side, where we know

*/
right);

} else {

52

/* Left and right are in correct places.

53

left++;

Expand

both sides.

*/

right--;

54
55

}

56

}

Sf

return left -

58

where we know it

right);

smaller than the pivot.

it should be.

49

int pivot) {

*/

} else if (array[right]

4?

come before all

{

/* Left is bigger than pivot.

A3

<= pivot

*/

1;

}

59

66

/* Get

61

int randomIntinRange(int min,

random integer within range,

inclusive.

int max)

*/

{

CrackingTheCoding!nterview.com | 6th Edition

569

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
62

Random rand = new Random();

63

return rand.nextInt(max + 1 - min) + min;

64

}

65

66

/* Swap values at index i and j.

67

void swap(int[] array, int i,

68

int t = array[i];

68

array[i]

78

array[j] = t;

*/

int j) {

= array[j];

71}
72

73

/* Get largest element in array between left and right indices.

74

int max(int[]

array,

int left,

int right)

75

int max = Integer.MIN_VALUE;

76

for (int i = left; i <= right; i++) {

77

max = Math.max(array[i],

78

*/

{

max);

i

79

return max;

80

}

if the elements are not unique, we can tweak this algorithm slightly to accommodate this.

Approach 4: Selection Rank Algorithm (if elements are not unique)
The major change that needs to be made is tothe partition function. When we partition the array around
a pivot element, we now partition it into three chunks: less than pivot, equal to pivot, and greater than
pivot.

This requires minor tweaks to rank as well.
We now compare the size ofleft and middle partitions to rank.
wON
AU
PWN PR

class PartitionResult {
int leftSize,

middleSize;

public PartitionResult(int left,

int middle) {

this. leftSize = left;
this.middleSize = middle;

}

}

int[]

18
11
12

smallestK(int[]

array,

int k)

{

if (k <= 9 || k > array.length) {
throw new IllegalArgumentException()
;
}

13

14

/* Get item with rank k -

1s

int threshold = rank(array, k - 1);

1.

*/

16

17

/* Copy elements

18

int[]

13

int count = 9;

26

for

21

*/

(int a:

array)

{

if (a < threshold) {

22

smallest[count] = a;

23

count++;

24
25

smaller than the threshold element.

smallest = new int[k];

}
}

26

27

570

/* If there's still room left, this must be for elements equal to the threshold

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
23

* element.

23

while

Copy those in.

(count < k)

39

smallest[count]

S331

count++;

32

*/

{

= threshold;

}

33

34
35

return smallest;
3}

36

3%

/* Find value with rank k in array.

38

int rank(int[] array,

39

int k)

*/

{

if (k >= array.length) {

4@

throw new IllegalArgumentException();

44

}

42

return rank(array,

k,

8,

array.length -

1);

43
}
44

45

/*

46

int rank(int[] array,

Find value with

rank k in sub array between start and end.

int k,

int start,

int end)

{

array around an arbitrary pivot.

*/

47

/* Partition

48

int pivot = array[randomintInRange(start,

49

PartitionResult partition = partition(array,

508

int leftSize = partition.leftSize;

51

int middleSize = partition.middleSize;

*/

end)
];
start,

end,

pivot);

52

BS

/* Search

54

if (k < leftSize)

portion of array.

5
56

} else if (k < leftSize + middleSize)

return rank(array,

57

return

58

pivot;

k, start,

// middle

is

start + leftSize - 1);
{ // Rank k is in middle

all

pivot values

} else { // Rank k is on right

59

return rank(array,

68

k -

leftSize

- middleSize,

start + leftSize + middleSize,

end);

61

62

*/

{ // Rank k is on left half

}

}

63

4

/* Partition result into <

65

PartitionResult partition(int[]

56

int

67

int right = end;

68

int middle = start;

69

while

72
74

left = start;

* the pivot.

73

*

one.

74

swap(array,

middle++;

7?
78

ee
89

at

int end,

edge of left

int pivot)

side.

*/

edge of right side.

(right)

edge of middle.

*/

{

*/
*/

{

< pivot)

{

Either way,

middle,

pivot.

swap them.

Left

is

either

Then middle

and

smaller or equal to
left

should

move by

left);

left++;
} else if (array[middle]
/* Middle

is

>

pivot)

bigger than the

{

pivot.

Right

could

have

any value.

Swap them,

* then we know that the new right is bigger than the pivot. Move right by
* one.

*/

81

swap(array,

82

right--;

83

/* Stays

-> bigger than pivot.

*/

75
76

(right)

(left)

smaller than the

72

int start,

/* Stays at

(middle <= right)
is

equal to pivot

array,

/* Stays at

if (array[middle]
/* Middle

pivot,

middle,

right);

} else if (array[middle] == pivot) {

Cracking heCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

571

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
84

/* Middle

8s

middle++;

86

is equal to the pivot.

Move by one.

*/

}
i

87
33

89

/* Return sizes

99

return new PartitionResult(left -

of left and middle.

*/

start,

right

- left +1);

}

91

Notice the change made tosmal lest K too.We cant simply copy all elements less than or equal to threshold
into the array. Since we have duplicates, there could be many more than k elements that are less than or equal
to threshold. (We also can't just say “okay, only copy k elements over.’ We could inadvertently fill up the
array early on with “equal” elements, and not leave enough space for the smaller ones.)
The solution for this is fairly simple: only copy over the smaller elements first, then fill up the array with equal
elements at the end.

17.15

Longest Word: Given a list of words, write a program to find the longest word made of other words
in the list.
pg 188

SOLUTION

This problem seems complex, so let's simplify it. What if we just wanted to know the longest word made of
two other words in the list?
We could solve this by iterating through the list, from the longest word to the shortest word. For each word,

we would split it into all possible pairs and check if both the left and right side are contained in the list.
The pseudocode for this would look like the following:
i

String getLongestWord(String[]

2

String[]

list)

{

array = list.SortByLength();

3

/* Create map for easy lookup */

4

HashMap<String,

Boolean> map = new HashMap<String,

Boolean>;

5

6

for

7

(String str

map.put(str,

8

:

array)

{

true);

}

9

18

for

(String s

:

array)

11

//

Divide

into

12

for

(int

i = 1;

{

every possible

i

<

pair

s.length();

i++)

13

String left = s.substring(o,

14

String right = s.substring(i);

15

// Check

16

if

17

are in the array

== true && map[right]

== true)

{

return s;

18

}

19

}

20

}

24

return

22

if both sides

(map[left]

{

i);

str;

}

This works great for when we just want to know composites of two words, But what if a word could be
formed by any number of other words?

572

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
In this case, we could apply a very similar approach, with one modification: rather than simply looking up if
the right side is in the array, we would recursively see if we can build the right side from the other elements
in the array.

The code below implements this algorithm:
L

String printLongestWord(String arr[]) {

2

HashMap<String,

Boolean> map = new HashMap<String,

3

for

:

4

(String str

map.put(str,

ie

true)
;

t

8

Arrays.sort(arr,

#

for

&

(String s

if

9

:

new LengthComparator());
arr)

// Sort by length

{

(canBuildWord(s,

true,

map))

{

System.
out.
println(s);

16

return

Sid

s;

}

12

}

43

14

Boolean>();

arr) {

return “”;

}

15

16

boolean canBuildWord(String str,

17

boolean isOriginalWord,

HashMap<String,

18

if

19

(map.containsKey(str)

&&

Boolean> map)

!isOriginalWord)

return map.get(str)
;

20

}

21

for

(int i = 1;

i

< str.length();

i++)

22

String left = str.substring(@,

23

String right = str.substring(i);

24

if

25

{

i);

(map.containsKey(left) && map.get(left) == true &&
canBuildWord(right, false,

26

map))

{

return true;

27

}

28

}

29

map.put(str,

30

return false;

31

{

{

false);

3

Note that in this solution we have performed a small optimization. We use a dynamic programming/

memoization approach to cache the results betweencalls. This way, if we repeatedly need to check if there's
any way to build “testingtester,’ we'll only have to compute it once.

Abooleanflag isOriginalWord is used tocomplete the above optimization.
The method canBuildWord
is called for the original word and for each substring, and its first step is to check the cache for a previously

calculated result. However, for the original words, we have a problem: map is initialized to true for them,
but we don't want to return true (since a word cannot be composed solely of itself). Therefore, for the
original word, we simply bypass this check using the isOriginalWord flag.

CrackingTheCodingI!nterview.com | 6th Edition

573

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
17.16 The Masseuse: A popular masseuse receives a sequence of back-to-back appointment requests
and is debating which ones to accept. She needs a 15-minute break between appointments and

therefore she cannot accept any adjacent requests. Given a sequence of back-to-back appointment requests (all multiples of 15 minutes, none overlap, and none can be moved), find the optimal
(highest total booked minutes) set the masseuse can honor. Return the number of minutes.
EXAMPLE

Input:

{38,

15,

60,

Output:188 minutes

75,

45,

({30,

15,

60,

15,

45}

45, 45}).
pg 188

SOLUTION

Let's start with an example. We'll draw it visually to get a better feel for the problem. Each number indicates
the number of minutes in the appointment.

r. = 75

el20
Rae
2

= 105
r,
1

7S
rP.s
8

3

r

4

= 90

ri = 135

Alternatively, we could have also divided all the values (including the break) by 15 minutes, to give us the

array{5,

7,

8,

5,

6,

9}. This would be equivalent, but now we would want a 1-minute break.

The best set of appointments for this problem has 330 minutes total, formed with {r, = 75,

r, = 120,

r, = 135}. Note that we've intentionally chosen an example in which the best sequence of appointments
was not formed througha strictly alternating sequence.
We should also recognize that choosing the longest appointment first (the “greedy” strategy) would not

necessarily be optimal. For example, a sequence like {45,

6@,

45,

15} would not have 60 in the

optimal set.
Solution #1: Recursion

The first thing that may come to mind is a recursive solution. We have essentially a sequence of choices as
we walk down the list of appointments: Do we use this appointment or do we not? If we use appointment
i, we must skip appointment i + 1 as we can’t take back-to-back appointments. Appointment i + 2 is
a possibility (but not necessarily the best choice).
1

int maxMinutes(int[]

2

massages)

return maxMinutes(massages,

3

{

6);

J

4

5

int maxMinutes(int[]

6

massages,

int index) {

if (index >= massages.length) { // Out of bounds

?

return

8

9;

I

9

18

/* Best with this reservation.

*/

11

int

+ maxMinutes(massages,

bestWith = massages[index]

index + 2);

12

13

/*

14

int bestwWithout

Best

without this

reservation.

*/

= maxMinutes(massages,

index + 1);

15

16

/* Return best of this subarray,

17

return Math.max(bestWith,

18

3

574

starting from index.

bestWithout)
;

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

*/

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
The runtime ofthis solution is O(2") because at each element we're making two choices and we do this n
times (where n is the number of massages).

The space complexity isO(n) due to the recursive call stack.
We can also depict this through a recursive call tree on an array of length 5. The number in each node repre-

sents the index value in a call to maxMinutes. Observe that, for example, maxMinutes (massages,

Q) callsmaxMinutes(massages, 1) andmaxMinutes(massages, 2).

As with many recursive problems, we should evaluate if there’s a possibility to memoize repeated subproblems. Indeed, there is.
Solution #2: Recursion + Memoization

We will repeatedly call maxMinutes on the same inputs. For example, we'll call it on index 2 when we're
deciding whether to take appointment 0. We'll also call it on index 2 when we're deciding whether to take
appointment 1. We should memoize this.
Our memo table is just a mapping from index to the max minutes. Therefore, a simple array will suffice.
1

int

maxMinutes(int[]

massages)

2

int[]

2

return maxMinutes(massages,

{

memo = new int[massages.length]
;

@,

memo);

Lai
5

6

int maxMinutes(int[] massages, int index,

?

if

8

9

(index

>= massages.length)

return

0;

int[] memo) {

{

}

16

11

if (memo[index]

== 9)

{

12

int bestWith = massages[index]

13

int

14.

bestWithout

+ maxMinutes(massages,

= maxMinutes(massages,

index + 1,

index + 2,

memo);

memo);

memo[index] = Math.max(bestWith, bestWithout)
;

15

}

16

17
18

return memo[ index ] ;
}

To determine the runtime, we'll draw the same recursive call tree as before but gray-out the calls that will
return immediately.
The calls that will never happen will be deleted entirely.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

575

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard

If we drew a bigger tree, we'd see a similar pattern.
The tree looks very linear, with one branch down to the

left. This gives us anO(n) runtime and O(n) space. The space usage comes from the recursive call stack as
well as from the memo table.
Solution #3: Iterative
Can we do better? We certainly cant beat the time complexity since we have to look at each appointment.
However, we might be able to beat the space complexity. This would mean not solving the problem recursively.

Let’s look at our first example again.

r,
= 30]
i)

r,
=
15]
Al

r, = 60|(r, = 75|r,
= 45] nr,5 = 15|r, = 15] r, = 45
A

As we noted in the problem statement, we cannot take adjacent appointments.
There’s another observation, though, that we can make: We should never skip three consecutive appoint-

ments. That is, we might skip r, and r, if we wanted to take r, and r,. But we would never skip Fiala and
r,. This would be suboptimal since we could always improve our set by grabbing that middle element.

This means that if we take r,, we know weil definitely skip r, and definitely take either r, or r,. This substantially limits the options we need to evaluate and opens the door to an iterative solution.
Let's think about our recursive + memoization solution and try to reverse the logic; that is, let's try to
approach it iteratively.
A useful way to do this is to approach it from the back and move toward the start of the array. At each point,

we find the solution for the subarray.

best (7): What's the best option for {r,

= 45}? We can get 45 min. if we taker,,sobest(7)

-

best(6): What's the best optionfor{r,

= 15,

*

best(5): What's the best option for{r, = 15,
»

taker, = 15 and merge it with best (7)

»

takebest(6) = 45.

...}?Still45 min, sobest(6)
...}?Wecan either:
45S, or:

The first gives us 60 minutes, best(5) = 68.
best(4): What's the best option for{r, = 45,
»

taker, = 45 and merge it with best(6)

»

takebest(5) = 69.

...}?Wecan either:
tT

*

45, or:

The first gives us 90 minutes, best(4) = 98.

best(3):What's the best option for{r, = 75,
»

576

...}?Wecan either:

taker, = 75 and merge it with best(5) = 60, or:
I

*

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

= 45.

= 45

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
»

takebest(4)

= 99.

The first gives us 135 minutes, best (3) = 135.
*

best(2): What's the best option for{r, = 60,
»

taker, = 6@and merge it withbest(4)

»

takebest(3)

...}?Wecan either:
= 99, or:

= 135.

The first gives us 150 minutes, best (2) = 152.
-

-

best(1):What’s the best optionfor{r, = 15,

»

taker, = 15 and merge it with best(3)

»

takebest(2)

= 159.

Either
way,
best(1)

= 15@.

...}?Wecaneither:

= 135, or:

best(@):What’s
the best optionfor{r, = 30,
»

taker, =

»

takebest(1)

...}?Wecan either:

3@and merge it with best (2)

15@, or:

= 152.

The first gives us 180 minutes, best(@)

= 189.

TherefOre, we return 180 minutes.

The code below implements this algorithm.
i

=6int maxMinutes(int[] massages) {

2

/* Allocating two extra slots in the

3

* checking on lines 7 and 8.

4

int[]

5

memo[massages.length] = Q;

6

memo[massages.length + 1] = 9;

7

for (int i = massages.length - 1;

8

memo = new int[massages.length + 2];

i >= @;

i--)

{

int bestWith = massages[i] + memo[i + 2];

9

int bestWithout = memo[i + 1];

10

memo[i] = Math.max(bestWith,

44

bestWithout)
;

}

12

13

array so we don't have to do bounds

*/

return memo[e];

}

The runtime of this solution isO(n) and the space complexity is also O(n).
It’s nice in some ways that it’s iterative, but we haven't actually “won’ anything here. The recursive solution
had the same time and space complexity.
Solution #4: iterative with Optimal Time and Space

in reviewing the last solution, we can recognize that we only use the values in the memo table for a short
amount of time. Once we are several elements past an index, we never use that element's index again.

in fact, at any given index i, we only need to know the best value from i

+ 1andi

+

2. Therefore, we

can get rid of the memo table and just use two integers.
2

aint maxMinutes(int[]

2

int oneAway = Q;

massages)

{

3

int twoAway = Q;

4

for (int i = massages.length

-

1;

i >= @;

5

int bestWith = massages[i] + twoAway;

&

int bestWithout = oneAway;

i--)

{

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

577

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
7

int current = Math.max(bestwith,

8

twoAway

= oneAway;

oneAway

= current;

3

18

bestwithout)
;

}

11

return

12

oneAway;

}

This gives us the most optimal time and space possible: O(n) time and O(1) space.
Why did we look backward? It’s a common technique in many problems to walk backward through an array.
However, we can walk forward if we want. This is easier for some people to think about, and harder for

others. In this case, rather than asking “What's the best set that starts with a[ i ]?” we would ask“What's the
best set that ends with a[i ]?”

17.17 Multi Search: Given a string b and an array of smaller strings T, design a method to search b for
each small string in T.
pg 189

SOLUTION

Let's start with an example:
T

=

{“is”,

“ppi”,

“hi”,

“sis”,

“i”,

“ssippi”}

b = “mississippi”

Note that in our example, we made sure to have some strings (like “is”) that appear multiple times in b.
Solution #1

The naive solution is reasonably straightforward. Just search through the bigger string for each instance of
the smaller string.
1

HashMapList<String,

2

Integer> searchAll(String big,

HashMapList<String,

3

new HashMapList<String,

4

for (String small

:

String[]

smalls)

{

Integer> lookup =
Integer>();

smalls) {

5

ArrayList<Integer> locations

6

lookup.put(small,

= search(big,

small);

locations)
;

ra

return lookup;

8

}

S
10

11

/* Find all locations of the smaller string within the bigger string.

12

ArrayList<Integer> search(String big, String small) {

13

ArrayList<Integer> locations = new ArrayList<Integer>();

14

for (int i = @;

15

if

16

big.length()

-

small.length() + 1;
small,

i))

i++) {

{

locations .add(i)
;

17

}

18

}

19

20

i <

(isSubstringAtLocation(big,

return locations;

}

21

22

/* Check if small appears at

23

boolean isSubstringAtLocation(String big,

24

for (int i = @; i < small.length();

25

578

if

index offset within big.

(big.charAt (offset + i)

!=

i++) {

small.charAt(i))

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

*/

String small,
{

int offset) {

*/

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
return false;

26
27

}

28

}

29

3@

return true;

}

3a

32

/* HashMapList<String,

33.

* ArrayList<Integer>.

Integer> is a HashMap that maps from Strings to

See appendix for implementation.

*/

We could have also used a substring and equals function, instead of writing isAtLocation. This is
slightly faster (though not in terms of big O) because it doesn’t require creating a bunch of substrings.

This will take O( kbt) time, where k is the length of the longest string in T, b is the length of the bigger
string, and t is the number of smaller strings within T.
Solution #2
To optimize this, we should think about how we can tackle all the elements in T at once, or somehow re-use
work.

One way is to create a trie-like data structure using each suffix in the bigger string. For the string bibs, the
suffix list would be: bibs, ibs, bs, s.
The tree for this is below.

Then, all you need to do is search in the suffix tree for each string in T. Note that if”B” were a word, you
would come up with two locations.
i

2

HashMapList<String,

Integer> searchAl1l(String big,

HashMapList<String,

3

Trie tree = createTrieFromString
(big) ;

4

for

(String s

:

String[]

smalls)

Integer> lookup = new HashMapList<String,

smalls)

{

Integer>();

{

5

/* Get terminating location of each occurrence.*/

&

ArrayList<Integer> locations = tree.search(s);

?
3

/* Adjust to starting location.

)

subtractValue(locations,

*/

s.length());

18

*/

11

/* Insert.

12

lookup.put(s,

2

}

14

return lookup;

locations);

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

579

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
5

15
16

17

Trie createTrieFromString(String s)

{

18

Trie trie = new Trie();

ss)

for (int i = 0; i < s.length(); i++) {

26

String suffix = s.substring(i);

21

trie.insertString(suffix,

22

i);

}

23

return trie;

24

}

25

26

void subtractValue(ArrayList<Integer> locations,

2?

if

28

for

28

(locations == null)

(int i = 0;

i <

locations.set(i,

int delta)

return;

locations.size();
locations.get(i)

i++)

{

- delta);

}

38
a
32

33.

public

34

class Trie {

private TrieNode root = new TrieNode()
;

35

36

public Trie(String s)

ey

public Trie() {}

{

insertString(s, @);

}

38

39

public ArrayList<Integer> search(String s)

48

{

return root.search(s);

Al

}

42

43

public void insertString(String str,

44

root.insertString(str,

45

int location) {

location)
;

}

46

47

public TrieNode getRoot() {

48

return

43

58

root;

}

}

Si

$2

public class TrieNode {

5s

private HashMap<Character, TrieNode> children;

54

private ArrayList<Integer> indexes;

SIE:

private char value;

56

5?

public TrieNode() {

58

children = new HashMap<Character,

5g

indexes = new ArrayList<Integer>();

62

TrieNode>();

}

61

62

public void insertString(String s,

63

indexes
.add( index) ;

64

if

(s

!= null && s.length()

65

value = s.charAt(@);

int index) {

> 0)

{

66

TrieNode child = null;

67

if (children.containsKey(value))

68

child = children.get(value)
;
} else {

69

78

580

child = new TrieNode();

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

{

{

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
Pal

children.put(value,

child);

72

}

73

String remainder = s.substring(1);

74

child.insertString(remainder,

75
76

children.put(‘\@’,

77

78

index + 1);

} else {
null);

// Terminating character

}

i

78

86

public ArrayList<Integer>

81.

search(String s)

82

return indexes;

} else {

83

84.

char first = s.charAt(@);

85

if (children.containsKey(first))

8&6

{

String remainder = s.substring(1);

87

return

88

children.get(first).search(remainder)
;

}

89

}

96

91

{

if (s == null || s.length() == @) {

return null;

}

92

93

public

94.
95

boolean terminates()

{

return children. containsKey(‘\@’);
}

96

97

public TrieNode getChild(char c)

98
oS

{

return children.get(c);
}

188 }
1@1

162 /* HashMapList<String,

Integer>

163

See

* ArrayList<Integer>.

is

a HashMap that maps from Strings to

appendix for implementation.

*/

It takes O( b?) time to create the tree and O( kt ) time to search for the locations.

Reminder: k is the length of the longest string in T, b is the length of the bigger string, and t is
the number of smaller strings within T.

The total runtime isO(b? + kt).

Without some additional knowledge of the expected input, you cannot directly compare O( bkt ), which
was the runtime of the prior solution, toO(b* +

kt).Ifb is very large, then O(bkt) is preferable. But if

you have a lot of smallerstrings, thenO(b? + kt) might be better.

Solution #3

Alternatively, we can add all the smaller strings into a trie. For example, the strings {i,

is,

pp,

ms}

would look like the trie below. The asterisk (*) hanging from a node indicates that this node completes a
word.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

581

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard

(7)

p

Se)

CP.)

os

2

Now, when we want to find all words inmississippi, we search through this trie starting with each word.
m: We would first look up in the trie starting with m, the first letter in mississippi. As soon as we go
to mi, we terminate.
i: Then, we go to i, the second character in mississippi. We see that i is a complete word, so we
add it to the list. We also keep going with i over to iS. The string 1S is also a complete word, so we add
that to the list. This node has no more children, so we move onto the next character inmississippi.
s: We now gotoS. There is no upper-level node for Ss, so we go onto the next character.
s: Another S. Go on to the next character.

i: We see another 1.We go to the i node in the trie. We see that 1 is a complete word, so we add it to the
list. We also keep going with 1 over to is. The string is is also a complete word, so we add that to the
list. This node has no more children, so we move onto the next character inmississippi.

S: We go to S. There is no upper-level node for s.
s: Another S. Go on to the next character.

i: We go to the i node. We see that i is a complete word, so we add it to the trie. The next character in
mississippi is a p. There is no node p, so we break here.
p: We see a p. There is no node p.
p: Another p.

i: We go to the i node. We see that i is a complete word, so we add it to the trie. There are no more
characters left inmiSsissippi, so we are done.
Each time we find a complete “smal

|"

word, we add it to a list along with the location in the bigger word

(mississippi) where we found the small word.
The code below implements this algorithm.
HashMapList<String,

ah

Integer> searchAll(String big,

HashMapList<String,

2

String[]

smalls)

Integer> lookup = new HashMapList<String,

3

int maxLen = big.length();

4

TrieNode

root = createTreeFromStrings(smalls,

maxLen).getRoot();

5

for

6

(int i = 0;

i < big.length();

i++)

{

7

ArrayList<String> strings = findStringsAtLoc(root,

8

insertIntoHashMap(strings,

lookup,

}

&
1@
ii

582

return

lookup;

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

i);

big,

i);

{

Integer>();

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
42

13

5

14 /* Insert each string into trie (provided string is not longer than maxLen). */
15 Trie createTreeFromStrings(String[] smalls, int maxLen) {
16

Trie tree = new Trie(“”);

17

for

(String s

if

18

smalls)

{

<= maxLen)

tree.insertString(s,

19

{

9);

}

26
3

a4

22.

23

:

(s.length()

return tree;

}

24.
25

/*

26

ArrayList<String> findStringsAtLoc(TrieNode root,

Find

strings

in trie that

ArrayList<String> strings

27

28

int index = start;

29

while

start

at

index “start” within

(index < big.length())

start)

{

{

root = root.getChild(big.charAt
(index) );

31

if

(root == null)

32

if

(root.terminates())

break;
{ //

Is complete string,

strings.add(big.substring(start,

add to list

index + 1));

}

34

index++;

35

36

}

By

return strings;

38

*/

int

= new ArrayList<String>();

38

33

big.

String big,

ii

39
46

/* HashMapList<String,

44

* ArrayList<Integer>.

Integer> is a HashMap that maps from Strings to
See appendix for implementation.

*/

This algorithm takes O( kt) time to create the trie and O(bk) time to search for all the strings.

Reminder: k is the length of the longest string in T, b is the length of the bigger string, and t is
the number of smaller strings within T.

The total time to solve the question isO(kt + bk).

Solution #1 was O(kbt).We know that O(kt + bk) will be faster than O(kbt).
Solution #2 was O(b? +

kt). Since b will always be bigger than k (or if it’s not, then we know this really

long string k cannot be found in b), we know Solution #3 is also faster than Solution #2.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

583

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
17.18 Shortest Supersequence: You are given two arrays, one shorter (with all distinct elements) and one

longer. Find the shortest subarray in the longer array that contains all the elements in the shorter
array. The items can appear in any order.

EXAMPLE
Input:

{1, 5, 9}

{7,

5,

9,

@,

Output:[7, 1@]

2,

1,

3,

5,7,

9,1,

1,

5,

8,

8,

9,

7}

(the underlined portion above)
pg 189

SOLUTIONS

As usual, a brute force approach is a good way to start. Try thinking about it as if you were doing it by hand.
How would you do it?

Let's use the example from the problem to walk through this, We'll call the smaller array smal lArray and
the bigger array bigArray.
Brute Force

The slow, “easy” way to do this is to iterate through bigArray and do repeated small passes through it.
At each index in bigArray, scan forward to find the next occurrence of each element in smal 1Array. The
largest of these next occurrences will tell us the shortest subarray that starts at that index. (We'll call this
concept“closure.’
That is, the closure is the element that “closes” a complete subarray starting at that index.
For example, the closure of index 3—which has value 8—in the example is index 9.)
By finding the closures for each index in the array, we can find the shortest subarray overall.
1

Range shortestSupersequence(int[]

2

int bestStart =

3

int bestEnd = -1;

4

for

(int i = @;

bigArray,

int[]

i <

bigArray.length;

i++)

{

{

$s

int end = findClosure(bigArray, smallArray,

6

if (end == -1)

7

if (bestStart

&

smallArray)

-1;

i);

break;
== -1

|| end - i < bestEnd - bestStart) {

bestStart = 1;

9

bestEnd = end;

18

}

11

}

12

return new Range(bestStart,

bestEnd)
;

13}
14

15

/* Given an index, find the closure

is

*

17

= =*

18

int findClosure(int[]

(i.e., the element which terminates a

subarray containing all elements in smallArray).
next

locations of each element

19

int max = -1;

29

for (int i = 0;

bigArray,

in

int[]

smallArray.

smallArray,

i < smallArray.length;

int next = findNextInstance(bigArray,

22

if

23

(next == -1)
return

{

-1;

24

}

25

max = Math.max(next,

max);

26}

584

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

*/

int index)

{

i++) {

21

complete

This will be the max of the

smallArray[i],

index);

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
aé

28

return max;

fF

23

3@

/* Find next instance of element starting from index. */

31

int findNextInstance(int[] array,

32

for

(int i = index;

oe

if (array[i]

34

return i;

35

== element)

i++)

int index)

{

{

{

}

}

38
37

38

int element,

i < array.length;

return

-1;

}

38
4&

public

class

Range {

Al

private

A2

private int end;

43

public

Aa

int

Range(int s,

start

A5

start;

=

int e)

{

S;

end = e;

46

}

S

&

Ag

public

int length()

43

public

int getStart()

{ return end
{

5é

public

int getEnd()

return end;

{

-

start + 1;

return start;

}

}

}

51

52

public boolean shorterThan(Range other)

53

return length()

54
55

{

< other.length();

+
}

This algorithm will potentially take O( SB?) time, where B is the length of bigString andS is the length
of smal1String. This is because at each of the B characters, we potentially do O(SB) work: S scans of the
rest of the string, which has potentially B characters.

Optimized
Let’s think about how we can optimize this. The core reason why it’s slow is the repeated searches. Is there a

faster way that we can find, given an index, the next occurrence of a particular character?

Let’s think about it with an example. Given the array below, is there a way we could quickly find the next 5
from each location?
7,

5,

9,

@,

2,

1,

3,

5,

7,

9,

1,

1,

5,

8,

8,

9,

7

Yes. Because we're going to have to do this repeatedly, we can precompute this information in just a single

(backwards) sweep. Iterate through the array backwards, tracking the last (most recent) occurrence of 5.

value | 7 S
index

Q

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

next

1

1

7

7

7

7,

7

us

12 | 12 | 12 | 12 | 12

5

Doing this for each of {1,

5,

9

SHS)

fect bs A

faeWs)

| er SY) Pi Ws)

x

x

PR Hoye

faaifs)

x

x

9} takes just 3 backwards sweeps.

Some people want to merge this into one backwards sweep that handles all three values. It feels faster—but
it’s not really. Doing it in one backwards sweep means doing three comparisons at each iteration. N moves
through the list with three comparisons at each move is no better than 3N moves and one comparison at

each move. You might as well keep the code clean by doing it in separate sweeps.

Cracking TheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

585

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard

value

|7/5]/9]/e}2)/2/3]5]7]9]

24
10]

index

)

1

2

3

4

5

next 1

5

5

5

5

5)

5

}10/,10;10]10/10/

9

next

5

1

1

7

7

7

7

Z

next 9

2

2

2

9

9

9

9

8}8|9]7
11 | 12 | 13 ] 14]

15 | 16

11]

x

x

x

x

x

7

}12)124)12)12412)

x

x

x

x

9

9

,157157

15

x

9

15}

157,15

The findNextInstance function can now just use this table to find the next occurrence, rather than

doing a Search.
But, actually, we can make it a bit simpler. Using the table above, we can quickly compute the closure of
each index. It’s just the max of the column. Ifa column has anx in it, then there is no closure, at this indicates
that there’s no next occurrence of that character.
The difference between the index and the closure is the smallest subarray starting at that index.

index

(s)

1

2

3

4

5

next 1

5

5

5

5

5

5

next 5

1

1

7

gd

7

7

6

10}

11 | 12 | 13 | 14]

|} 10]10]10]10;]10)]11]

7

7

12]

12

9

9

9

15 | 16

x

x

x

x

x

| 12 | 12 | 12

xX

xX

x

x

next 9

2

2

2

9

9

9

9

\lalis) | |) altss |)

atts

x

closure

5

5

7

9

8)

9

}10]10/)]12),12]15]}15]

x

x

x

x

x

diff.

5

4

5

6

5

4

4

x

x

x

x

x

3

4

AUS)

3

ppaltss | | altsy)|)

5

4

Aut BWNH

Range shortestSupersequence(int[]

OO Or

Now, all we have to do is to find the minimum distance in this table.

/* Create table of next occurrences.

int[][]
int[]

big,

int[]

small)

nextElements = getNextElementsmMulti(big,

{
small);

closures = getClosures(nextElements)
;

return getShortestClosure(closures)
;

}

int[][]

getNextElementsMulti(int[]

int[][]

10

i <

nextElements[i]

small)

{

small.length;

i++)

{

= getNextElement(big,

small[i]);

}

12

13
14

int[]

nextElements = new int[small.length][big.length];

for (int i = 0;

11

*/

big,

return nextElements;
}

15

16

/* Do backwards sweep to get a list of the next occurrence of value from each

17.

*

index.

18

int[]

1S

int

*/

getNextElement(int[]
next

=

bigArray,

20

int[]

21

for (int i = bigArray.length - 1;

22

=

== value) {

i;

}

25

nexts[i]

26

= next;

}

ea

28

(bigArray[i]
next

24

return

nexts;

}

29

30

/* Get

586

{

nexts = new int[bigArray.length];

if

23

int value)

-1;

closure for each index.

*/

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

i >= 6;

i--)

{

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard

31

int[]

getClosures(int[][]

nextElements)

{

int[] maxNextElement = new int[nextElements[@].length];

32

for (int i = 0; i < nextElements[@]. length; i++) {

a=

maxNextElement[i] = getClosureForIndex(nextElements, =)

34

35

}

36

return maxNextElement;

}
37
38

29 /* Given an index and the table of next elements, find the closure for this index
* (which will be the min of this column). */

48

41

int getClosureForIndex(int[][]

42

int max = -1;

43

for (int i = @;

44.

i < nextElements.length;

if (nextElements[i][index]

4S

return

46

== -1)

int index)

i++)

{

{

{

-1;

}

4F

max = Math.max(max,

4g

nextElements[i][index])
;

}

49

5e

nextElements,

return max;

}

51

52

/* Get shortest closure.

53

Range getShortestClosure(int[]

54

int

bestStart

=

int bestEnd = -1;

56

for (int i = @;
if

58

i < closures.length;

(closures[i]

== -1)

{

i++)

{

{

break;

59

}

68

int current = closures[i]

61

if (bestStart

62

== -1

||

-

i;

current < bestEnd - bestStart) {

bestStart = 1;

63

bestEnd =

64

closures[i];

}

65

}

66

67

closures)

-1;

55
57

*/

return new Range(bestStart,

bestEnd);

}

This algorithm will potentially take O( SB) time, where B is the length of bigString andS is the length of
smal1String. This is because we do S sweeps through the array to build up the next occurrences table
and each sweep takesO(B)
time.
It uses O( SB) space.
More Optimized
While our solution is fairly optimal, we can reduce the space usage. Remember the table we created:

value

|7/5/9]e@/Z2/113]/8]7;/9{a)1]/5),81819]7

index

1

2

3

4

5

next

1

5

5

5

5

5

5

next

5

1

1

7

7

7

7

next 9

2

2

2

9

g)

closure

5

5

7

9

9

7

8

9

10 | 11

| 10),10}]10]10],10)

| 14]

15]

16

x

x

x

x

x

7

7

12 |} 12 | 12 | 12 | 12

x

x

x

x

9

S)

9

S)

}Pousy | | aly |

Waly

| als)

x

9

}10],10]12}12),15}15]

x

x

x

x

3)

O59)

11]

| 12 | 13

| aly |

x

CrackingTheCoding|nterview.com | 6th Edition

587

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
In actuality, all we need is the closure row, which is the minimum of all the other rows. We don't need to
store all the other next occurrence information the entire time.
Instead, as we do each sweep, we just update the closure row with the minimums. The rest of the algorithm

works essentially the same way.
1

Range shortestSupersequence(int[] big,

2

int[] closures = getClosures(big,

3

int[]

small) {

small);

return getShortestClosure(closures)
;

se

|

5

6

/* Get closure for each index.

7

int[]

getClosures(int[] big,

*/

int[]

small)

8

int[] closure = new int[big.length]
;

5

for (int i = @;

18
11

}

12

return closure;

13

i < small.length;

sweepForClosure(big,

closure,

{

i++) {
small[i]);

}

14

15

/* Do backwards

16

17

sweep and update the closures list with the next occurrence of

* value, if it’s later than the current closure. */

void sweepForClosure(int[]

big,

18

int next = -1;

19

for (int i = big.length -

20

if (big[i] == value)

21

i >= 0;

i--)

{

{

next = 1;

22

;

23

if ((next == -1

24

(closures[i]

25

closures[i]

26

||

closures[i] < next) &&

!=

-1))

f{

= next;

}

27.
28

1;

int[] closures, int value) {

Sys
}

29
30

/* Get

31

Range getShortestClosure(int[]

shortest closure.

*/

32

Range shortest = new Range(@,

33

for

34

(int i = 1;

closures[@]);

i < closures.length;

if (closures[i]

35

closures) {
i++)

break;

36

}

37

Range range = new Range(i,

38

if (!shortest.shorterThan(range)) {

39

closures[i]);

shortest = range;

48

}

41

}

42

return

43

{

== -1) {

shortest;

}

This still runs inO(SB) time, but it now only takes O(B) additional memory.

Alternative & More Optimal Solution
There's a totally different way to approach it. Let's suppose we hada list of the occurrences of each element

in smallArray.

588

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
aes

value

|7151;9;}/9};2]12])3}45

7

index

| 6 7
aoi1i];2i4y37;44]5

8

1

->

{5,

10,

So

=5

fie

vm

2.)

9

-> {2,

3,

9,

16 | 11

| 12

| 13 | 14 | 15 | 16

11}

15}

What is the very first valid subsequence (which contains 1, 5, and 9)? We can just look at the heads of each

list to tell us this. The minimum of the heads is the start of the range and the max of the heads is the end of
the range. In this case, the first range is [1, 5]. This is currently our “best” subsequence.

How can we find the next one? Well, the next one will not include index 1, so let’s remove that from the list.
1 ->

{5,

10,

5 -> {7,

12}

9

3,

->

{2,

11}
9,

15}

The next subsequence is [2, 7]. This is worse than the earlier best, so we can toss it.

Now, what's the next subsequence? We can remove the min from earlier (2) and find out.
1 -> {5,

10,

5 -> {7,

12}

9

9,

-> {3,

11}
15}

The next subsequence is [3, 7], which is no better or worse than our current best.
We can continue down this path each time, repeating this process. We will end up iterating through all

“minimal” subsequences that start from a given point.
1. Current subsequence is [min of heads, max of heads]. Compare to best subsequence and update if
necessary.

2.

Remove the minimum head.

3.

Repeat.

This will give us anO(SB) time complexity. This is because for each of B elements, we are doing a comparison to the S other list heads to find the minimum.

This is pretty good, but let’s see if we can make that minimum computation faster.
What we're doing in these repeated minimum calls is taking a bunch of elements, finding and removing the
minimum, adding in one more element, and then finding the minimum again.

We can make this faster by using a min-heap. First, put each of the heads in a min-heap. Remove the
minimum. Look up the list that this minimum came from and add back the new head. Repeat.

To get the list that the minimum element came from, we'll need to use a HeapNode class that stores both
the LlocationWithinList (the index) andthe 1istId. This way, when we remove the minimum, we can
jump back to the correct list and add its new head to the heap.
1

Range shortestSupersequence(int[]

array,

2

ArrayList<Queue<Integer>>

3

if

4

return getShortestClosure(locations)
;

(locations == null)

int[]

elements)

{

locations = getLocationsForElements(array,

elements)
;

return null;

5
6
7
8

9

/* Get list of queues
*

(linked lists)

smallArray appears in

bigArray.

storing the indices

ArrayList<Queue<Integer>> getLocationsForElements(int[]

18

/*

Initialize

hash map from

Li

HashMap<Integer,

item value to locations.

Queue<Integer>>

at which

each

element

in

*/

itemLocations

big,

int[]

small)

{

*/

=

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

589

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
12

new HashMap<Integer,

a

for

(int s

:

small)

Queue<Integer>>();

{

14

Queue<Integer> queue

= new LinkedList<Integer>();

15

itemLocations.put(s,

queue);

16

}

17

18

/ *Walk through big array,

19

for

(int i = @;

i <

adding the item locations to hash map */

big.length;

i++)

{

26

Queue<Integer> queue = itemLocations.get(big[i]);

21

if

22

(queue

!= null)

{

queue.add(i);

23

}

24

}

25

2@

ArrayList<Queue<Integer>> allLocations = new ArrayList<Queue<Integer>>();

27

allLocations.addAll(itemLocations.values());

28

29

return allLocations;

}

38

31

Range getShortestClosure(ArrayList<Queue<Integer>> lists)

{

32

PriorityQueue<HeapNode> minHeap = new PriorityQueue<HeapNode>();

33

int max = Integer.MIN_ VALUE;

34

35

/ *Insert min element from each list.

36

for

(int i = 0;

i < lists.size();

i++)

Su

int head = lists.get(i).remove();

38

minHeap.add(new HeapNode(head,

39

max = Math.max(max,

40

*/

{

i));

head);

}

Al

42

int min = minHeap.peek().locationWithinList
;

43

int bestRangeMin = min;

44

int bestRangeMax = max;

45

4@

while

(true)

{

47

/ *Remove min node.

48

HeapNode n = minHeap.poll();

*/

49

Queue<integer> list = lists.get(n.listId);

58

51

/ *Compare range to best range.

52

min = n.locationWithinList;

5)

if (max -

54

bestRangeMin)

{

bestRangeMax = max;

55
Se

min < bestRangeMax -

*/

bestRangeMin = min;
}

4

58

/ *If there are no more elements,

59

“t3)

* can break.

if (list.size() == @) {

1

62

then there's no more subsequences and we

*/

break;

}

63

4

/ *Add new head of list to heap.

€5

n.locationWithinList = list.remove();

66

minHeap.add(n)
;

57

max = Math.max(max,

590

*/

n.locationWithinList)
;

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
68

J;

68

7&8

71

return new Range(bestRangeMin,

bestRangeMax);

}

We’re going through B elements in getShortestClosure, and each time pass in the for loop will take
O(log S) time (the time to insert/remove from the heap). This algorithm will therefore takeO(B log S)
time in the worst case.

17.19

Missing Two: You are given an array with all the numbers from 1 to N appearing exactly once,

except for one number that is missing. How can you find the missing number in O(N) time and
O0(1) space? What if there were two numbers missing?
pg 189
SOLUTIONS

Let's start with the first part: find a missing number in O(N) time and 0(1) space.
Part 1; Find One Missing Number

We have a very constrained problem here. We can’t store all the values (that would take O(N) space) and
yet, somehow, we need to have a “record” of them such that we can identify the missing number.
This suggests that we need to do some sort of computation with the values. What characteristics does this
computation need to have?

-

Unique. If this computation gives the same result on two arrays (which fit the description in the
problem), then those arrays must be equivalent (same missing number). That is, the result of the compu-

tation must uniquely correspond to the specific array and missing number.
*

Reversible. We need some way of getting from the result of the calculation to the missing number.

+

Constant Time: The calculation can be slow, but it must be constant time per element in the array.

+

Constant Space: The calculation can require additional memory, but it must be

0(1) memory.

The “unique” requirement is the most interesting—and the most challenging. What calculations can be

performed on a set of numbers such that the missing number will be discoverable?
There are actually a number of possibilities.
We could do something with prime numbers. For example, for each value x in the array, we multiply

result by the xth prime. We would then get some value that is indeed unique (since two different sets of
primes can’t have the same product).

Is this reversible? Yes. We could take result and divide it by each prime number: 2, 3, 5, 7, and so on. When
we get anon-integer
for the ith prime, then we know i was missing from our array.

Is it constant time and space, though? Only if we had a way ofgetting the ith prime number in O(1) time
and O(1) space. We don't have that.
What other calculations could we do? We don't even need to do all this prime number stuff. Why not just
multiply all the numbers together?

*

Unique? Yes. Picture 1*2*3*. . . *n. Now, imagine crossing off one number. This will give us a different

result than if we crossed off any other number.
¢

Constant time and space? Yes.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

591

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
-

Reversible? Let's think about this. If we compare what our product is to what it would have been

without a number removed, can we find the missing number? Sure. Wejust divide Full_product by

actual_product.
This will tell us which number was missing from actual_product.

There's just one issue: this product is really, really, really big. If n is 20, the product will be somewhere around
2,000,000,000,000,000,000.

We can still approach it this way, but we'll need to use the BigInteger class.
1

int missingOne(int[]

2

array)

BigInteger fullProduct

{

= productToN(array.length + 1);

Z
4

BigInteger actualProduct = new BigInteger (“1”) ;

5

for (int i = @;

i < array.length;

i++)

{

6

BigInteger value = new BigInteger(array[i] + “”);

7

actualProduct = actualProduct.multiply(value)
;

8

}

9

10

BigInteger missingNumber = fullProduct.divide(actualProduct
);

11

return Integer .parseInt(missingNumber .toString());

3

12
13

14

BigInteger productToN(int n)

is

BigInteger fullProduct

16

for (int i = 2;

17

=

i <=n;

{

new BigInteger(“1”);

i++) {

fullProduct = fullProduct.multiply(new BigInteger(i + “”));

18

}

18

return fullProduct;

28

}

There's no need for all of this, though. We can use the sum instead. It too will be unique.

Doing the sum has another benefit: a is already a closed form expression to compute the sum of
numbers between 1 and n. Thisis

Most candidates probably won't remember the expression for the sum of numbers between 1
and n, and that’s okay. Your interviewer might, however, ask you to derive it. Here’s how to think

about that: you can pair up the low and high values inthe sequenceofO

+ ntoget:(@, n) + (1,

+1+2+3+...

n-1) + (2, n-3),and soon. Each ofthose pairs has a sum of n

and there are ~~ pairs. But what if n is even, such that *5*isnot an integer? In this case, pair

up low and high ice to get WA pairs with sum n+1. Either way, the math works out to ncn )

Switching to a sum will delay the overflow issue substantially, but it won't wholly prevent it. You should
discuss the issue with your interviewer to see how he/she would like you to handle it. Just mentioning it is

plenty sufficient for many interviewers.
Part 2: Find Two Missing Numbers

This is substantially more difficult. Let’s start with what our earlier approaches will tell us when we have two

missing numbers.

-

Sum: Using this approach will give us the sum of the two values that are missing.

-

Product: Using this approach will give us the product of the two values that are missing.

Unfortunately, knowing the sum isn’t enough. If, for example, the sum is 10, that could correspond to (1, 9),
(2, 8), and a handful of other pairs. The same could be said for the product.

592

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
We're again at the same point we were in the first part of the problem. We need a calculation that can be
applied such that the result is unique across all potential pairs of missing numbers.
Perhaps there is such a calculation (the prime one would work, but it’s not constant time), but your interviewer probably doesn’t expect you to know such math.
What else can we do? Let's go back to what we can do. We can get x

+

y and we canalso get x * y. Each

result leaves us with a number of possibilities. But using both of them narrows it down to the specific
numbers.
x

+

y

=

sum

->

y

=

sum

-

x

x * y = product -> x(sum - x) = product
x*sum - x? = product
x*sum - x* -

product = ©

-x* + x¥*sum -

product = @

At this point, we can apply the quadratic formula to solve for x. Once we have x, we can then compute y.
There are actually a number of other calculations you can perform. In fact, almost any other calculation
(other than “linear” calculations) will give us values for x and y.
For this part, let's use a different calculation. Instead of using the product of1 * 2 *

the sum of the squares:12 + 27 +

...

...

* n,wecanuse

+ n2. This will make the BigInteger usagea little less critical,

as the code will at least run on small values of n. We can discuss with our interviewer whether or not this is
important.
x+Yye=s

->y=s-xX

re+ty=at

-> x? + (s-x)?=t
2x? - 2sx + s?-t = @

Recall the quadratic formula:

x = [-b +- sqrt(b*? - 4ac)] / 2a
where, in this case:
a=2
b=

-2s5

= Boi

Implementing this is now somewhat straightforward.
1

int[] missingTwo(int[] array)

{

2

int max_value = array.length + 2;

3

int rem_square = squareSumToN(max_value,

4

int

rem_one

for

(int i = @;

= max_value *

2);

(max_value + 1)

/ 2;

5

§
7

rem square

8

rem_one

9

i < array.length;

-= array[i]

*

i++)

{

array[i];

-= array[i];

4}

12

11

12

return solveEquation(rem_one,

rem_square)
;

}

13

14

int squareSumToN(int n,

int power)

{

15

int sum = @;

16
17

for (int i = 1; i <=n; it) {
sum += (int) Math.pow(i, power);

18

}

Ags

return sum;

26

+}

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

593

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
24

22

int[] solveEquation(int r1,

as

int r2) {

/* ax*2 + bx + €

24

S55

25

* x = [-b +- sqrt(b*2 - 4ac)] / 2a

26

* In this case, it has to be

2?

a+ nota - */

int a = 2;

28

int b = -2 * 71;

23

aye a = ted * sel =

me

38

31

double parti =

32

double part2 = Math.sqrt(b*b - 4 * a * c);

-1 * b;

BE

double part3 = 2 * a;

34

35

int solutionx = (int)

36

int solutiony = ri - solutionx;

((part1 + part2)

/ part3);

37

38

int[] solution = {solutionx,

39

return solution;

4@

solutiony};

}

You might notice that the quadratic formula usually gives us two answers (see the + or - part), yet in our

code, we only use the (+) result. We never checked the (-) answer. Why is that?
The existence of the “alternate” solution doesn’t mean that one is the correct solution and one is “fake.” It

means
that there are exactly two values for x which will correctly fulfill our equation:
2x? - 2sx + (s*-t)
=

@.

That’s true. There are. What's the other one? The other value is y!

If this doesn’t immediately make sense to you, remember that x and y are interchangeable. Had we solved

for y earlier instead of x, we would have wound up with an identical equation: 2y? -

2sy + (s?-t) =

@. So of course y could fulfill x‘s equation and x could fulfill y’s equation. They have the exact same equation. Since x and y are both solutions to equations that look like

2[ something]? - 2s[something]

+

s*-t = @,then the other something that fulfills that equation must be y.
Still not convinced? Okay, wecan do some math. Let’s say we tookthe alternate value for x: [-b - sqrt(b?
- 4ac)]

/ 2a.What’s
y?

x+yer,

y=r,-x

r, - [-b - sqrt(b? - 4ac)]/2a
[2a*r, + b + sqrt(b? - 4ac)]/2a
Partially plug in values for a and b, but keep the rest of the equation as-is:

[2(2)*r, + (-2r,) + sqrt(b? - 4ac)]/2a
[2r, + sqrt(b? - 4ac)]/2a
Recall thatb =
=

-2r,.Now, we wind up with this equation:

[-b +

sqrt(b?

Therefore, if weusex =

-

4ac)]/2a

(part1 + part2)

/ part3,then we'llget (part1 - part2)

/ part3

for the value
for y.
We don't care which one we call x and which one we call y, so we can use either one. It‘ll work out the same
in the end.

594 i Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
17.20 Continuous Median: Numbers are randomly generated and passed to a method. Write a program
to find and maintain the median value as new values are generated.
pg 189

SOLUTIONS
One solution is to use two priority heaps: a max heap for the values below the median, and a min heap for
the values above the median. This will divide the elements roughly in half, with the middle two elements as
the top of the two heaps. This makes it trivial to find the median.

What do we mean by “roughly in half}’ though? “Roughly” means that, if we have an odd number of values,
one heap will have an extra value. Observe that the following is true:

+
-

IfmaxHeap.size()

> minHeap.size(),maxHeap.top()
will be the median.

IfmaxHeap.size()

==

minHeap.size(), then the average of maxHeap.top() and minHeap.

top() will be the median.
By the way in which we rebalance the heaps, we will ensure that it is always maxHeap with extra element.
The algorithm works as follows. When a new value arrives, it is placed in the maxHeap if the value is less
than or equal to the median, otherwise it is placed into the minHeap.
The heap sizes can be equal, or the
maxHeap may have one extra element. This constraint can easily be restored by shifting an element from
one heap to the other. The median is available in constant time, by looking at the top element(s). Updates

take O( Log(n) ) time.
1

Comparator<Integer> maxHeapComparator,

2

PriorityQueue<Integer> maxHeap,

minHeapComparator
;

minHeap;

3

4

void addNewNumber(int randomNumber)

5

/* Note:

6

* maxHeap.size()

7

if

8

(maxHeap.size()

if

{

addNewNumber maintains a condition that
>= minHeap.size()

((minHeap.peek()

randomNumber > minHeap.peek())

16

maxHeap.offer (minHeap.poll());

{

minHeap.offer (randomNumber ) ;

} else {

iz
13

maxHeap.offer(randomNumber
);

14

}

45

} else f{

16

if(randomNumber < maxHeap.peek())

17

minHeap .offer(maxHeap.poll());

18

{

maxHeap.offer (randomNumber ) ;

19

}

28

else {

2a

minHeap.offer (randomNumber ) ;

Pie

}

23

24

{

!= null) &&

©
11

*/

== minHeap.size())

}

}

25

26

27
28
2S

double getMedian()

36

31

{

/* maxHeap is always at least as big as minHeap. So if maxHeap is empty, then
* minHeap is also. */
if (maxHeap.isEmpty()) {
return @;

}

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

595

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard

33

if (maxHeap.size() == minHeap.size()) {
return ((double)minHeap.peek()+(double)maxHeap.peek()) / 23

34

}

32

alse {

/* If maxHeap and minHeap are of different sizes, then maxHeap must have one

35

*/
* eytra element. Return maxHeap’s top element.

36

return maxHeap.peek();

27

}

38

BS,

17.21

Volume of Histogram: Imagine a histogram (bar graph). Design an algorithm to compute the
volume of water it could hold if someone poured water across the top. You can assume that each
histogram bar has width 1.
EXAMPLE

Input: {0,

@,

4,

0,

0,

6,

0,

0,

3,

0,

5,

8,

1,

0,

O,

O}

(Black bars are the histogram. Gray is water.)

Output:
26

0040060030501000
pg 189

SOLUTION

This is a difficult problem, so let's come up with a good example to help us solve it.

004006003080205203080

We should study this example to see what we can learn from it. What exactly dictates how big those gray
areas are?
Solution #1

Let's look at the tallest bar, which has size 8. What role does that bar play? It plays an important role for
being the highest, but it actually wouldn't matter if that bar instead had height 100. It wouldn't affect the
volume.

The tallest bar forms a barrier for water on its left and right. But the volume of water is actually controlled
by the next highest bar on the left and right.
Water on immediate left of tallest bar: The next tallest bar on the left has height 6. We can fill up the
area in between with water, but we have to deduct the height of each histogram between the tallest and

next tallest. This gives a volume on the immediate left of: (6-@) + (6-@) + (6-3) + (6-@) = 21.
Water on immediate right of tallest bar: The next tallest bar on the right has height 5. We can now

596

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
compute
the
volume: (5-@) + (5-2)

+ (5-@)

= 13.

This just tells us part of the volume.

004006003080205203080

What about the rest?

We have essentially two subgraphs, one on the left and one on the right. To find the volume there, we
repeat a very similar process.
1.

Find the max. (Actually, this is given to us. The highest on the left subgraph is the right border (6) and the

highest on the right subgraph is the left border (5).)
2.

Find the second tallest in each subgraph. In the left subgraph, this is 4. In the right subgraph, this is 3.

=).

Compute the volume between the tallest and the second tallest.

4.

Recurse on the edge of the graph.

int

start

histogram)

{

= Q;

int end = histogram.length

-

1;

int max = findIndexOfMax(histogram,

DW fa ow

19

computeHistogramVolume(int[]

int

GH Ut Bb

ta NO bs

The code below implements this algorithm.

start, end);

int

leftVolume =

subgraphVolume(histogram,

int

rightVolume = subgraphVolume(histogram,

start,
max,

max,

end,

true);

false);

return leftVolume + rightVolume;

}

11

42

413
14
iS

/* Compute the volume of a

* or end

* tallest and

second tallest.

int subgraphVolume(int[]

16

if

17

int

1s

if

subgraph of the histogram.

(depending on isLeft).

(start

>= end)

Find

Then

histogram,

compute
int

volume

start,

{

sum = Q;

(isleft)

{

20

sum += borderedVolume(histogram,

max,

sum += subgraphVolume(histogram,

start, max,

start,

end -

1);

end);

isLeft);

} else {

23

int max = findIndexOfMax(histogram,

24

sum += borderedVolume(histogram,

start + 1,

start,

sum += subgraphVolume(histogram, max,

25

26

*/

boolean isLeft)

return 0;

int max = findIndexOfMax(histogram,

22

of subgraph.

int end,

19

a1

One max is at either start

second tallest, then compute volume between

end);

max);

end,

isLeft);

}

27
ae

return

sum;

23
38

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

597

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
31

/* Find tallest bar in histogram between start and end.

32

int findIndexOfMax(int{]

33

int indexOfMax = start;

34

for (int i = start + 1;

35

if

36

i <= end;

int start,

*/

int end) {

i++) {

> histogram[indexOfMax])

{

indexOfMax = i;

37

}
}

38

33
48

(histogram[i]

histogram,

return indexOfMax;
}

41

42

/* Compute volume between start and end. Assumes that tallest

43

44

* second tallest is at end.

int borderedVolume(int[{]

4s

if (start >= end)

bar is at start and

*/

histogram,

int start,

int end) {

return @;

46

47

int min = Math.min(histogram[start],

48

int sum = 0;

49

for

5@

(int

i = start + 1;

i++)

{

sum += min - histogram[i];

51

}

52

return sum;

53

i < end;

histogram[end]);

}

This algorithm takes O(N?) time in the worst case, where N is the number of bars in the histogram. This is
because we have to repeatedly scan the histogram to find the max height.
Solution #2 (Optimized)

To optimize the previous algorithm, let’s think about the exact cause of the inefficiency of the prior algo-

rithm. The root cause is the perpetual calls to find IndexOfMax. This suggests that it should be our focus
for optimizing.

One thing we should notice is that we don't pass in arbitrary ranges into the findIndexOfMax function.
It’s actually always finding the max from one point to an edge (either the right edge or the left edge). Is
there a quicker way we could know what the max height is from a given point to each edge?

Yes. We could precompute this information inO(N) time.
In two sweeps through the histogram (one moving right to left and the other moving left to right), we can

create a table that tells us, from any index i, the location of the max index on the right and the max index
on the left.

INDEX:

0123456789

HEIGHT:

3140060302

INDEX LEFT

MAX: 08022255555

INDEX RIGHT MAX: 5555557799

The rest of the algorithm precedes essentially the same way.

598

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
We’ve chosen to use a HistogramData object to store this extra information, but we could also use a
two-dimensional array.
1

int computeHistogramVolume(int[]

2

int start = @;

3

int end = histogram.length

-

histogram)

{

1;

4

5

HistogramData[]

data = createHistogramData(histogram)
;

5

?

int max = data[@].getRightMaxIndex(); // Get overall max

8

int leftVolume =

s

int rightVolume = subgraphVolume(data,

subgraphVolume(data,

start, max, true);
max,

end,

false);

16

11

12

return

leftVolume + rightVolume;

3}

13

14

HistogramData[]

createHistogramData(int[]

15

HistogramData[]

16

for

17

(int i = 0;

histogram[i]

18

histo)

{

histogram = new HistogramData[histo.length];
i < histo.length;

i++)

{

= new HistogramData(histo[i]);

}

1S

28

/* Set left max index.

21

int maxIndex = @;

22

for (int i = @;

23

if

24

*/

i < histo.length;

(histo[maxIndex]

i++)

< histo[i])

{

{

maxIndex = i;

25

}

26

histogram[i].setLeftMaxIndex(maxIndex)
;

27

}

28

23

/* Set

38

maxIndex =

31

for (int i = histogram.length - 1;

ee

if

33

right max index.

*/

histogram.length

(histo[maxIndex]

-

1;

< histo[i])

i >= @;

i--)

{

{

maxIndex = i;

34

}

35

histogram[i].setRightMaxIndex(maxIndex)
;

36

}

37

38
39

return histogram;
}

48

41

42
43
44

/* Compute the volume of a

* or end

* tallest and
int

subgraph of the histogram.

(depending on isteft).
second tallest.

Find second tallest,

Then compute volume of subgraph.

subgraphVolume(HistogramData[]

45

boolean isLeft)

AG

if

(start

>= end)

A?

int

sum = @;

48

if (isLeft)

histogram,

int start,

*/

int end,

{

return @;

{

43

int max = histogram[end

58

sum += borderedVolume(histogram,

max,

51

sum += subgraphVolume(histogram,

start,

52

One max is at either start

then compute volume between

- 1].getLeftMaxIndex();
end)
;

max,

isLeft);

} else {

53

int max = histogram[start + 1].getRightMaxIndex();

54

sum += borderedVolume(histogram,

start, max);

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

599

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
55

sum += subgraphVolume(histogram, max,

56

end,

isLeft);

}

57

return sum;

58
59

}

66

61

/* Compute volume

62

*

63

between start and end.

second tallest is

at end.

int borderedVolume(HistogramData[]

64

if (start >= end)

Assumes that tallest bar is at start and

*/

data,

int start,

int end)

{

return Q;

65

66

int min = Math.min(data[start].getHeight(),

67

int sum = 0;

68

for (int i = start + 1;

69

i < end;

i++)

data[end].getHeight());

{

sum += min - data[i].getHeight();

73

}

ral

return sum;

72
}
73

74

public

class

HistogramData {

75

private

int height;

76

private int leftMaxIndex = -1;

77

private int rightMaxiIndex = -1;

78

ys

public HistogramData(int v) { height = v;

80

public int getHeight() { return height;

81

public int getLeftMaxIndex() { return leftMaxIndex;

$2

public void setLeftMaxIndex(int idx) { leftMaxIndex = idx;

83

public int getRightMaxIndex()

4
as

}

}

}

{ return rightMaxIndex;

public void setRightMaxIndex(int idx)

};

}

{ rightMaxIndex = idx;

};

}

This algorithm takes O(N) time. Since we have to look at every bar, we cannot do better than this.
Solution #3 (Optimized & Simplified)

While we can't make the solution faster in terms of big O, we can make it much, much simpler. Let's look at
an example again in light of what we've just learned about potential algorithms.

004006003080205203080

As we've seen, the volume of water in a particular area is determined by the tallest bar to the left and to
the right (specifically, by the shorter of the two tallest bars on the left and the tallest bar on the right). For

example, water fills in the area between the bar with height 6 and the bar with height 8, up to a height of 6.
it’s the second tallest, therefore, that determines the height.

The total volume of water is the volume of water above each histogram bar. Can we efficiently compute
how much water is above each histogram bar?

600

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
Yes, In Solution #2, we were able to precompute the height of the tallest bar on the left and right of each
index. The minimums of these will indicate the “water level” at a bar. The difference between the water level

and the height of this bar will be the volume of water.

HEIGHT:
LEFT

MAX:

8040060030802052039090
020444666668888888888

RIGHT MAX: 888888888885555333090
MIN: 0044466666855553339080
DELTA: 000440663605350130090

Our algorithm now runs ina few simple steps:
1. Sweep left to right, tracking the max height you've seen and setting left max.
2.

Sweep right to left, tracking the max height you've seen and setting right max.

3. Sweep across the histogram, computing the minimum ofthe left max and right max for each index.
4.

Sweep across the histogram, computing the delta between each minimum and the bar. Sum these
deltas.

Inthe actual implementation, we don’t need to keep so much data around. Steps 2, 3, and 4 can be merged

into the same sweep. First, compute the left maxes in one sweep. Then sweep through in reverse, tracking
the right max as you go. At each element, calculate the min of the left and right max and then the delta

SO SO ow

OW

Bk ta Ag Bo

between that (the “min of maxes”) and the bar height. Add this to the sum.
/* Go through each bar and compute the volume of water above it.
* volume of water at a bar =

*

height - min(tallest bar on left,

ci

[where above equation is positive]

* Compute the left max in the first sweep,
* max,

minimum of the bar heights,

int computeHistogramVolume(int[]

then sweep again to

and the delta.

histo)

compute the right

*/

{

/* Get left max */
int[]

leftMaxes

= new int[histo.length];

18

int leftMax = histo[@]};

11

for

12

(int i = @;

i < histo.length;

leftMax = Math.max(leftMax,

ig

14

tallest bar on right)

leftMaxes[i]

=

i++)

{

histo[i]);

leftMax;

}

15

16

int sum = Q;

Le

18

/* Get

is

int

rightMax = histo[histo.length

right max */

20

for

(int i = histo.length

-

1;

2i

rightMax = Math.max(rightMax,

22

int

secondTallest

-

1];

i >= @;

i--)

{

histo[i]);

= Math.min(rightMax,

leftMaxes[i]);

23

24
25

26

/* If there are taller things on the left and right side, then there is water
* above this bar.

Compute the volume and add to the sum.

*/

if (secondTallest > histo[i]) {

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

601

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
37

sum += secondTallest - histo[i];

28

}

29

}

38
31

return

32

sum;

}

Yes, this really is the entire code! It is still O(N) time, but it’s a lot simpler to read and write.

17.22 Word Transformer: Given two words of equal length that are in a dictionary, write a method to

transform one word into another word by changing only one letter at a time. The new word you get
in each step must be in the dictionary.
EXAMPLE
Input: DAMP. LIKE

Output: DAMP -> LAMP -> LIMP -> LIME -> LIKE
pg 189
SOLUTION

Let's start with a naive solution and then work our way to a more optimal solution.
Brute Force

One way of solving this problem is to just transform the words in every possible way (of course checking at
each step to ensure each is a valid word), and then see if we can reach the final word.

So, for example, the word bold would be transformed into:
*

aold,bold,...,Zold

-

bald,bbld,...,bz1ld

-

boad,bobd, ...,bozd

«

bola,bolb, ...,bolz

We will terminate (not pursue this path) if the string is not a valid word or if weve already visited this word.

This is essentially a depth-first search where there is an “edge” between two wordsif they are only one edit
apart. This means that this algorithm will not find the shortest path. It will only find a path.

if we wanted to find the shortest path, we would want to use breadth-first search.
1

LinkedList<String> transform(String start,

String stop,

2

HashSet<String> dict = setupDictionary(words)
;

3

HashSet<String> visited = new HashSet<String>();

a

return transform(visited,

5

start,

stop,

String[] words)

dict);

f

&

¥

HashSet<String> setupDictionary(String[] words)

8

HashSet<String> hash = new HashSet<String>();

3

for

18

(String word

: words)

{

{

hash. add(word.toLowerCase());

11

}

12

return hash;

13}
14
16

LinkedList<String> transform(HashSet<String>

602

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

visited,

String

startWord,

{

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
16

String stopWord, Set<String> dictionary) {

1?

if (startword.equals(stopwWord))

{

1%

LinkedList<String> path = new LinkedList<String>();

15g)

path.add(startwWord);

20

return path;

24

} else if (visited.contains(startWord)

22

||

!dictionary.contains(startWord)) {

return null;

23

if

24

25

visited.add(startwWord)
;

26

ArrayList<String> words = wordsOneAway(startWord)
;

27

28

for (String word

:

words) {

LinkedList<String> path = transform(visited, word, stopWord, dictionary);

28
39

if (path

Sl
Sy)

!= null)

{

path.addFirst(startword)
;
return path;

33

}
}

34
35

36

return null;

ay
38

39

ArrayList<String> wordsOneAway(String word) {

48

ArrayList<String> words = new ArrayList<String>();

AL

for

42

(int i = 0;

i < word.length();

for (char c = ‘a’; c <= £273

43

String w = word.substring(@,

44.

words .add(w) ;

4S

{

i) + c + word.substring(i + 1);

}

AS

}

a7

48

i++)

c++) {

return

words;

}

One major inefficiency in this algorithm is finding all strings that are one edit away. Right now, we're finding
the strings that are one edit away and then eliminating the invalid ones.
Ideally, we want to only go to the ones that are valid.
Optimized Solution

To travel to only valid words, we clearly need a way of going from each word to a list of all the valid related
words.

What makes two words “related” (one edit away)? They are one edit awayif all but one character is the same.

For example, ball and bill are one edit away, because they are both in the form b_11. Therefore, one
approach is to group all words that look like b_ 11 together.
We can do this for the whole dictionary by creating a mapping from a “wildcard word” (like b_ 11) to a list

of all words in this form. For example, fora very small dictionary like {all,

ill,

ail,

ape,

ale}the

mapping might look like this:
_il -> ail
_le ->

ale

_ll

->

all,

_pe

->

ape

a_e

->

ape,

ale

al

-> ail,

ail

ill

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

603

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
il

->

ill

ai_ -> ail
al_ -> all,
ap

->

ale

ape

ce ee Iola

Now, when we want to know the words that are one edit away from a word like ale, we look up_1e, a_e,
and al_in the hash table.
The algorithm is otherwise essentially the same.
1

LinkedList<String> transform(String start,

String stop,

2

HashMapList<String,

3

HashSet<String> visited = new HashSet<String>();

4

return transform(visited,

5

String[]

words)

{

String> wildcardToWordList = createWildcardToWordMap(words)
;
start,

stop,

wildcardTowWordList)
;

}

6

7

/* Do a depth-first

8

* that is one edit

search from startWord to stopWord,

9

LinkedList<String> transform(HashSet<String> visited,

away.

18

HashMapList<String,

11

if (start.equals(stop))

traveling through each word

*/

String start,

{

{

12

LinkedList<String> path = new LinkedList<String>();

13

path.add(start)
;

14

String stop,

String> wildcardToWordList)

return path;

15

} else if (visited.contains(start)) {

16

return null;

1?

}

18

1S

visited.add(start);

26

ArrayList<String> words = getValidLinkedWords(start, wildcardToWordList)
;

De

for

(String word

:

words)

{

23

LinkedList<String> path = transform(visited, word,

24

if (path

25

!= null)

stop, wildcardToWordList)
;

{

path.addFirst(start)
;

26

return path;

27

}

28

}

29

38

31

return null;

}

32

33

/* Insert words in dictionary into mapping from wildcard form -> word.

34

HashMapList<String,

String> createWildcardToWordMap(String[] words)

25

HashMapList<String,

36

for (String word

:

String> wildcardToWords = new HashMapList<String,

words)

{

37

ArrayList<String> linked = getWildcardRoots(word)
;

38

for

ahs
AB

:

linked)

{

}

AL

}

42

43

(String linkedWord

wildcardToWords.put(linkedWord, word);

return wildcardTowWords;

}

aa

45

/* Get list of wildcards associated with word. */

46

ArrayList<String> getWildcardRoots(String w)

47

604

ArrayList<String> words

{

= new ArrayList<String>();

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

*/

{
String>();

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
48

for (int i = 0;

43

i++)
i)

{

+ “_” + w.substring(i + 1);

;
words .add(word)

59

}

oul
52

53

i < w.length();

String word = w.substring(@,

return words;

}

54

55

/* Return words that are one edit away.

56

ArrayList<String> getValidLinkedWords(String word,

57

HashMapList<String,

*/

String> wildcardTowWords) {

58

ArrayList<String> wildcards = getWildcardRoots(word);

55

ArrayList<String> linkedWords = new ArrayList<String>();

62

for (String wildcard

: wildcards)

{

61

ArrayList<String> words = wildcardTowWords.get (wildcard) ;

62

for

63

words)

{

if (!linkedWord.equalis(word))

{

64

:

linkedWords .add(linkedWord) ;

65

}

66

}

}

67
68
69

(String linkedWord

return linkedWords;
}

78

71

/* HashMapList<String,

72

* ArrayList<String>.

String>
See

is a HashMap that maps from Strings to

appendix for implementation.

*/

This will work, but we can still make it faster.

One optimization is to switch from depth-first search to breadth-first search. If there are zero paths or one
path, the algorithms are equivalent speeds. However, if there are multiple paths, breadth-first search may
run faster.

Breadth-first search finds the shortest path between two nodes, whereas depth-first search finds any path.
This means that depth-first search might take a very long, windy path in order to find a connection when,
in fact, the nodes were quite close.
Optimal Solution

As noted earlier, we can optimize this using breadth-first search. Is this as fast as we can make it? Not quite.
Imagine that the path between two nodes has length 4. With breadth-first search, we will visit about 15*
nodes to find them.
Breadth-first search spans out very quickly.

Instead, what if we searched out from the source and destination nodes simultaneously? In this case, the
breadth-first searches would collide after each had done about two levels each.
*

Nodes travelled to from source: 157

*

Nodes travelled to from destination: 152

*

Total nodes: 15? + 15?

This is much better than the traditional! breadth-first search.

We will need to track the path that we've travelled at each node.

CrackinglheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

605

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
To implement this approach, we've used an additional class BFSData. BFSData helps us keep things a

bit clearer, and allows us to keep a similar framework for the two simultaneous breadth-first searches. The
altemative is to keep passing around a bunch of separate variables.

1.

LinkedList<String> transform(String startWord, String stopWord, String[] words) {

2

HashMapList<String,

String> wildcardToWordList = getWildcardToWordList(words
) ;

S

4

BFSData sourceData = new BFSData(startWord)
;

5

BFSData destData = new BFSData(stopWord)
;

5

7

while

(!sourceData.isFinished() &&

!destData.isFinished())

8

/* Search out from source.

8

String collision = searchLevel(wildcardToWordList,

1g

if

it
i.

(collision

!= null)

{

*/

sourceData,

destData);

{

return mergePaths(sourceData,

destData,

Search out from destination.

*/

collision);

}

i3
14

/*

5

collision = searchLevel(wildcardToWordList,

16

if (collision

5.7)

destData,

sourceData)
;

!= null) {

return mergePaths(sourceData, destData, collision);

18

}

tue,

}

28

214

return null;

22

}

23

24

/* Search one level and return collision,

25

String searchLevel(HashMapList<String,

26

BFSData primary,

27

/* We only want to search one

28

*

currently in the

29

*

to

add

nodes

primary’s

to the

end.

if any.

*/

String> wildcardToWordList,

BFSData secondary) {

level

at

level

and only do that many

a time.

Count

how many nodes are
nodes.

We’11

continue

*/

38

int count = primary.toVisit.size();

34

for (int i = @;

i < count; i++) {

32

/* Pull out first node.

33

PathNode pathNode = primary.toVisit.poll();

*/

34

String word = pathNode.getWord();

35
36

/* Check

ay

if

38

if it’s

already been visited.

*/

(secondary.visited.containsKey(word))

{

return pathNode.getWord()
;

35

}

Ag

Ai

/* Add friends to queue.

42

ArrayList<String> words

43

for

(String w

:

words)

*/
= getValidLinkedWords(word,

{

44

if (!primary.visited.containsKey(w))

AS

PathNode next = new PathNode(w,

46

primary.visited.put(w,

A?

primary.toVisit.add(next)
;

Ag

}

AQ

}

56

}

S41

S2

next);

return null;

}

53

606

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

{

pathNode)
;

wildcardToWordList)
;

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard

54 LinkedList<String> mergePaths(BFSData bfsi, BFSData bfs2, String connection) {
PathNode end1 = bfsl.visited.get(connection); // endl -> source

55

56

PathNode end2 = bfs2.visited.get(connection);

57

LinkedList<String> pathOne = end1.collapse(false);

53

LinkedList<String> pathTwo = end2.collapse(true);

59

pathTwo.removeFirst();

60

pathOne.addAll(pathTwo);

61

return pathOne;

62

// end2 -> dest

// forward

// reverse

// remove connection
// add second path

}

63

m.

64 /* Methods getWildcardRoots, getWildcardToWordList, and getValidLinkedWords are
* the same as in the earlier solution. */

65
66

67

68

public class BFSData {

public Queue<PathNode> toVisit = new LinkedList<PathNode>();

public HashMap<String, PathNode> visited = new HashMap<String, PathNode>();

63

76

7

public BFSData(String root)

{

72

PathNode sourcePath = new PathNode(root,

Re

toVisit.add(sourcePath)
;

74

visited.put(root,

75

null);

sourcePath)
;

}

76

77

public boolean isFinished()

78

return toVisit.isEmpty();

ris,

{

}

8e
}
81

82

public class PathNode {

83

private

String word = null;

84

private

PathNode

85

public PathNode(String word,

86

PathNode previous)

{

this.word = word;

87

88

previousNode = null;

previousNode = previous;

}

88

SO

public String getword()

$1
92

{

return word;
}

oe

94

/* Traverse path and return linked list of nodes.

$s

public

56

LinkedList<String>

*/

collapse(boolean startsWithRoot)

{

LinkedList<String> path = new LinkedList<String>();

97

PathNode node = this;

98

while

98

if

16@

(node

!= null)

{

(startsWithRoot)

{

path. addLast(node.word)
;

161

} else {

102

path. addFirst (node.word) ;

185

}

164

node = node.previousNode;

185

}

106

return path;

407}
18g }

189

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

607

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
118 /* HashMapList<String,
i4i

Integer> is a HashMap that maps from Strings to

* ArrayList<Integer>. See appendix for implementation.

*/

This algorithm’s runtime is a bit harder to describe since it depends on what the language looks like, as well
as the actual source and destination words. One way of expressing it is that if each word has E words that

are one edit away and the source and destination are distance D, the runtime is O(E°/?). This is how much
work each breadth-first search does.
Of course, this is a lot of code to implement in an interview. It just wouldnt be possible.

More real-

istically, you'd leave out a lot of the details. You might write just the skeleton code of transform and
searchLevel, but leave out the rest.

17.23

Max Square Matrix: Imagine you have a square matrix, where each cell (pixel) is either black or

white. Design an algorithm to find the maximum subsquare such that all four borders are filled with
black pixels.
pg 190

SOLUTION

Like many problems, there's an easy way and a hard way to solve this. We'll go through both solutions.

The “Simple” Solution: O(N*)
We know that the biggest possible square has a length of size N, and there is only one possible square of

size NxN. We can easily check for that square and return if we find it.

If we do not find a square of size NxN, we can try the next best thing: (N-1) x (N-1).We iterate through
all squares of this size and return the first one we find. We then do the same for N2, N- 3, and so on. Since
we are searching progressively smaller squares, we know that the first square we find is the biggest.
Our code works as follows:
1

Subsquare findSquare(int[][]

2

matrix)

for (int i = matrix.length;

{

i >= 1;

i--)

{

bE)

Subsquare square = findSquareWithSize(matrix,

4

if (square

5

!= null)

i);

return square;

}

6

return

7

null;

3

8

9

Subsquare findSquareWithSize(int[][]

matrix,

18

/* On an edge of length N, there are (N -

ii

int count = matrix.length

int squareSize)

{

sz + 1) squares of length sz.

- squareSize + 1;

12

13

/* Iterate through all squares with side length squareSize.

14

for

is

(int row = @;

for

16

(int col = @;

if

1?

row++)

col < count;

(isSquare(matrix,

row,

*/

{

col++)

col,

return new Subsquare(row,

18

{

squareSize))

col,

{

squareSize)
;

}

a9

}

28

}

21
22

row < count;

return

null;

}

a3
24

boolean

608

isSquare(int({]{]

matrix,

int

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

row,

int

col,

int

size)

{

*/

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
25

// Check top and bottom border.

26

for (int j = @; j < size; j++){

27

if (matrix[row][col+j] == 1)

{

return false;

28
BS

}

30

if (matrix[rowtsize-1][col+j] == 1){
return false;

31
32

}

33

}

34

35

// Check left and right border.

36

for (int i = 1; i < size - 1; i+){

37

if (matrix[row+i][col] == 1){
return false;

38
39

}

4Q

if (matrix[row+ti][colt+size-1] == 1) {

Al

return false;

42

}

43

}

44

return true;

Ae

Pre-Processing Solution:

O(N*)

A large part of the slowness ofthe “simple” solution above is due to the fact we have to doO(N) work each
time we want to check a potential square. By doing some pre-processing, we can cut down the time of

isSquare to 0(1). The time of the whole algorithm is reduced to O(N?).
if we analyze what isSquare does, we realize that all it ever needs to know is if the next squareSize
items, on the right of as well as below particular cells, are zeros. We can pre-compute this data in a straightforward, iterative fashion.
We iterate from right to left, bottom to top. At each cell, we do the following computation:
if A[r][c]

is white,

zeros right and zeros below are @

else A[r][c].zerosRight = A[r]f{c + 1].zerosRight + 1

A[r][c].zerosBelow = A[r + 1][c].zerosBelow + 1

Below is an example ofthese values for a potential matrix.
(@s

right,

@s

below)

Original Matrix

0,9 | 1,3 | 0,0

W

B

W

2,2

| 1,2 | 0,0

B

B

W

2,1}

1,1 | 9,9

B

B

W

Now, instead of iterating through O(N) elements, the isSquare method just needs to check zerosRight
and zerosBelow for the corners.
Our code for this algorithm is below. Note that FindSquare and findSquareWithSi
ze is equivalent,

other thana
1

2

call to processMatrix and working with a new data type thereafter.

public class SquareCell {

public int zerosRight = @;

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

609

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
3

public int zerosBelow = 6;

4

/* declaration,

5

getters,

setters */

4}

5

7

Subsquare findSquare(int[][] matrix)

{

8

SquareCell[][] processed = processSquare(matrix)
;

9

for

(int i = matrix.length;

i >= 1;

i--)

{

12

Subsquare Square = findSquareWithSize(processed,

11

if (square

12

}

13

return

!= null)

i);

return square;

null;

}

14
16

16

Subsquare findSquareWithSize(SquareCell[][]

17

processed,

int size)

{

/* equivalent to first algorithm */

ig

}

19

28

boolean isSquare(SquareCell[][]

matrix,

int

row,

21

SquareCell topLeft

22

SquareCell topRight = matrix[row][col + sz

23

SquareCell

int col,

int sz)

= matrix[row][col];

bottomLeft

= matrix[row + sz

-

-

1];

1][col];

24

25

/* Check top,

26

if (topLeft.zerosRight < sz

left,

right,

and bottom edges,

27

topRight.zerosBelow < sz

28

return false;

23

}

39

return true;

31

respectively.

|| topLeft.zerosBelow < sz
||

*/

||

bottomLeft.zerosRight < sz) {

+}

32

33

SquareCell[][]

34

processSquare(int[][] matrix)

SquareCell[][]

35

{

processed =

new SquareCell[matrix.
length] [matrix. length];

36

37

for

38

(int r = matrix.length

for

aS

-

1;

(int c = matrix.length

int

rightZeros

= 0;

belowZeros

= @;

r >= @;

- 1;

49

int

Ai

//

only need to process if it’s

42

if

(matrix[r][c]

== 6)

a

{

c--)

{

black cell

{

43

right Zeros++;

44

belowZeros++3

45

//

next

46

if

(c + 1 < matrix.length)

47

r--)

c >= @;

column over is on same row
{

SquareCell previous = processed[r][c + 1];

438

rightZeros += previous.zerosRight
;

49

}

59

if (r+ 1 < matrix.length)

51

SquareCell previous

52

{

= processed[r + 1][c];

belowZeros += previous .zerosBelow;

53

}

54

}

55

processed[r][c]

56
57

}

58

return

610

= new SquareCell(rightZeros,

}

processed;

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

belowZeros)
;

{

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
59
}

17.24 Max Submatrix: Given an NxN matrix of positive and negative integers, write code to find the
submatrix with the largest possible sum.
pg 190
SOLUTION

This problem can be approached in a variety of ways. We'll start with the brute force solution and then
optimize the solution from there.

Brute Force Solution:

0(N°)

Like many “maximizing” problems, this problem has a straightforward brute force solution. This solution
simply iterates through all possible submatrices, computes the sum, and finds the largest.
To iterate through all possible submatrices (with no duplicates), we simply need to iterate through all

ordered pairs of rows, and then all ordered pairs of columns.

This solution is O(N®), since we iterate through O(.N*) submatrices and it takes O(N?) time to compute the
area of each.
1

SubMatrix getMaxMatrix(int[][]

2

matrix)

3

int columnCount = matrix[@].length;

4

SubMatrix best = null;

5

for

6

(int row1 = 8;

for

7)

rowl1 < rowCount;

(int row2 = rowl;

rowl++)

row2 < rowCount;

{

row2++)

for (int coli = @; coll < columnCount;

8

for

(int col2 = col1;

col2 <

9

int sum = sum(matrix,

i9

if (best == null

11

||

col1,

best.getSum()

{

coli++) {

columnCount;

rowl,

best = new SubMatrix(row1,

12

col2++)

row2,

< sum)

col1,

{

col2);

{

row2,

col2,

sum);

row2,

int col2)

}

14

}

45

}

16

}

i7

return best;

18

}

2@

int sum(int[][]

all

int sum = Q;

22

for

23

matrix,

(int r = rowl;

for

24

(int

int

rowl,

r <= row2;

c = coll;

int

r++)

c <= col2;

coll,

int

{

{

c++)

{

sum += matrix[r][cl;

25

}

26

}

27

28

{

int rowCount = matrix.length;

return sum;

}

29

3@

public class SubMatrix {

BH

private int rowl,

Se

public SubMatrix(int ri, int c1,

33

rowl = ri;

34

coli

=

row2,

coli,

col2,

sum;

int r2,

int c2, int sm)

{

cl;

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

611

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
row2 = r2;

35

36

col2 = c2;

37

sum = sm;

38

}

39

public int getSum() {

40
41

return sum;

42

}

43

}

It is good practice to pull the sum code into its own function since it's a fairly distinct set of code.

Dynamic Programming Solution: 0(N*)

Notice that the earlier solution is made slower by a factor of

O(N*) simply because computing the sum of

a matrix is so slow. Can we reduce the time to compute the area? Yes! In fact, we can reduce the time of

computeSumtoO(1).
Consider the following rectangle:
x1

x2

yl
y2

Suppose we knew the following values:
ValD = area(point(@,

@)

-> point(x2,

y2))

ValC = area(point(@,

@)

-> point(x2,

y1))

ValB = area(point(@,

9)

-> point(x1,

y2))

ValA = area(point(®,

@)

-> point(x1,

y1))

Each Va1* starts at the origin and ends at the bottom right corner of a subrectangle.
With these values, we know the following:
area(D)

= ValD -

area(A union C)

-

area(A union B) + area(A).

Or, written another way:
area(D)

= ValD - ValB - ValC + ValA

We can efficiently compute these values for all points in the matrix by using similar logic:
Val(x, y)

= Val(x-1, y) + Val(y-1,

x)

- Val(x-1, y-1)

+ M[x][y]

We can precompute all such values and then efficiently find the maximum submatrix.
The following code implements this algorithm.
1

SubMatrix getMaxMatrix(int[][]

2

SubMatrix best = null;

matrix)

3

int rowCount = matrix.length;

4

int columnCount = matrix[@].length;

5

int[][]

{

sumThrough = precomputeSums (matrix) ;

6

7

for (int rowl = @;

g

for (int

S

for

128

612

row2 =

rowl < rowCount;
rowl;

(int coll = 6;

row1++)

row2 < rowCount;

coli <

{

row2++)

columnCount;

{

coli++)

{

for (int col2 = coll; col2 <¢ columnCount; col2++) {

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
it

int sum = sum(sumThrough,

42

if (best == null || best.getSum() < sum) {

43

best = new SubMatrix(row1,

14

coli,

coll,

row2,

row2,

col2);

col2,

sum);

»

45

}

16

}

17

}

i8

}
return best;

18
28

row1,

}

21

22

int[][]

precomputeSums(int[][]

23

int[{][]

24

for

matrix)

{

sumThrough = new int[matrix.length][matrix[@].length]
;

(int r = 03;

r < matrix.length;

r++)

{

25

for (int c = @;

26

int left = c

27

int top =r

28

int overlap = r

ae

sumThrough[r][c] = left + top - overlap + matrix[r][c];

30

c++)

> @ ? sumThrough[r][c > ©

? sumThrough[r
> @ && c

>

©

-

{

1]

1][c]

:
:

9;
@;

? sumThrough[r-1][c-1]

:

@;

}

31

}

32

33

c < matrix[@].length;

return sumThrough;

}

34

35

int sum(int[][] sumThrough,

int ri,

36

int topAndLeft = r1 > @ && c1

37

int left = cl

38

int top = r1 > © ?

39

int full = sumThrough[r2][c2];

40

41

return full

-

> ©

left

int c1,

> ©

?

? sumThrough[r2][c1
sumThrough[r1
-

-

int r2,

int c2)

sumThrough[ri-1][c1-1]
-

1]

1][c2]

:
:

{
+:

Q;

Q;
@;

top + topAndLeft;

}

This algorithm takes O(N*) time, since it goes through each pair of rows and each pair of columns.

Optimized Solution: 0(N*)
Believe it or not, an even more optimal solution exists. If we have R rows and C columns, we can solve it in

O(R?C)

time.

Recall the solution to the maximum subarray problem: “Given an array of integers, find the subarray with

the largest sum.”
We can find the maximum subarray in O(N) time. We will leverage this solution for this
problem.

Every submatrix can be represented by a contiguous sequence of rows and a contiguous sequence of
columns. If we were to iterate through every contiguous sequence of rows, we would then just need to find,

for each of those, the set of columns that gives us the highest sum. That is:
4

maxSum = 0

2

foreach rowStart in rows

3

foreach rowEnd in rows

Us

4
6

7
&

/* We have many possible submatrices with rowStart and
*

bottom edges of the matrix.

* the highest sum.

Find the colStart and

rowEnd as the top and

colEnd edges that give

*/

maxSum = max(runningMaxSum,

maxSum)

return maxSum

Now the question is, how do we efficiently find the “best” colStart and colEnd?
Picture a submatrix:

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

613

solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard

rowStart

9

-8

1

3

-2

-3

7

6

-2

4

6

-4

-4

8

-7

12

-5

3

9

-5

rowEnd

Given a rowStart and rowEnd, we want to find the colStart and colEnd that give us the highest
possible sum. To do this, we can sum up each column and then apply the maximumSubArray

function

explained at the beginning of this problem.
For the earlier example, the maximum subarray is the first through fourth columns. This means that the

maximum submatrix is (rowStart,
first column) through (rowEnd,
fourth column).
We now have pseudocode that looks like the following.
i

maxSum =

2

foreach

3

@

rowStart in rows

foreach rowEnd in rows

4

foreach col in columns

2)

partialSum[col] = sum of matrix[rowStart,

§

col] through matrix[rowEnd,

col]

runningMaxSum = maxSubArray(partialSum)

7

maxSum = max(runningMaxSum,

&

maxSum)

return maxSum

The sum in lines 5 and 6 takes R*C time to compute (since it iterates through rowStart through rowEnd),

so this gives us a runtime of O(R3C). We're not quite done yet.
In lines 5 and 6, we're basically adding up a[@]. .

.a[ i] from scratch, even though in the previous itera-

tion of the outer for loop, we already added up a[@].. .a[/i-1]. Let’s cut out this duplicated effort.
fh) BS

maxSum = @

Gs

clear array

OF WT ae

foreach rowStart in rows
foreach rowEnd in rows

partialSum

foreach col in columns

partialSum[col]

+= matrix[rowEnd,

col]

LO CO sw

runningMaxSum = maxSubArray(partialSum)
maxSum = max(runningMaxSum, maxSum)
return maxSum

Our full code looks like this:
UT fe bas Bb be

SubMatrix getMaxMatrix(int[][]

matrix)

{

int rowCount = matrix.length;

int colCount = matrix[@].length;

80 wd CN

SubMatrix best = null;

for (int rowStart = @;

rowStart < rowCount;

rowStart++)

{

int[] partialSum = new int[colCount
];

a.)

feo pak

M2

for

614

(int rowEnd = rowStart;

/* Add values at

for

(int i = @;

rowEnd < rowCount;

row rowEnd.

i <

colCount;

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

*/

i++)

{

rowEnd++)

{

Solutions to Chapter 17 |Hard
partialSum[i] += matrix[rowEnd][i];

42

}

13

14

Range bestRange = maxSubArray(partialSum, colCount);
if (best == null || best.getSum() < bestRange.sum) {

a5

16

best = new SubMatrix(rowStart,

1?

bestRange.start,

bestRange.end,

18

i

i9
20

rowEnd,

bestRange.sum)
;

}

21

q

22

return best;

23
aA

a

Range maxSubArray(int[]

26

Range best = null;

27

int start = @;

28

int

sum = @;

for

(int i = @;

array,

int N) {

29
38

i < N;

Be

sum += array[i];

32

if (best == null

||

i++)

sum > best.sum)

best = new Range(start,

33

{

i,

{

sum);

}

34
35
36

/* If running sum is < @ no point in trying to continue the series.

37

if

38

(sum <

6)

Reset.

*/

{

start = i+ 1;
sum = 0;

3g
40

3

4

}

A2

return

best;

a3
44

AS

public class Range {

AS

public int start,

47

public Range(int start,

48

this.start = start;

A9

this.end = end;

sum;

int end,

int sum)

{

this.sum = sum;

50

51

end,

}

52

This was an extremely complex problem. You would not be expected to figure out this entire problem in an
interview without a lot of help from your interviewer.

17.25 Word Rectangle: Givena list of millions of words, design an algorithm to create the largest possible

rectangle of letters such that every row forms a word (reading left to right) and every column forms
a word (reading top to bottom).
The words need not be chosen consecutively from the list, but all
rows must be the same length and all columns must be the same height.
pg 190
SOLUTION

Many problems involving a dictionary can be solved by doing some pre-processing. Where can we do preprocessing?

CrackingTheCodinglnterview.com | 6th Edition

615

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
Well, if we're going to create a rectangle of words, we know that each row must be the same length and
each column must be the same length. So let’s group the words of the dictionary based on their sizes. Let's

call this grouping D, where D[ i ] contains the list of words of length 1.
Next, observe that we're looking for the largest rectangle. What is the largest rectangle that could be

formed? It’s length( largest word)?.
4

int maxRectangle = longestWord * longestWord;

2

for z = maxRectangle to 1 {

3

for each pair of numbers

4

5
6

(i,

j) where i*j = z {

/* attempt to make rectangle.

return if successful.

*/

fi
4}

By iterating from the biggest possible rectangle to the smallest, we ensure that the first valid rectangle we
find will be the largest possible one.

Now, for the hard part: makeRectangle(int 1,

int h).This method attempts to build a rectangle of

words which has jength 1 and height h.
One way to do this is to iterate through all (ordered) sets of h words and then checkif the columns are also
valid words. This will work, but it's rather inefficient.

Imagine that we are trying to build a 6x5 rectangle and the first few rows are:
there
queen

pizza

Atthis point, we know that the first column starts with tqp.We know—or should know—that no dictionary

word starts with tqp. Why do we bother continuing to build a rectangle when we know we'll fail to create
a valid one in the end?

This leads us to a more optimal solution. We can build a trie to easily look up if a substring is a prefix of a
word in the dictionary. Then, when we build our rectangle, row by row, we check to see if the columns are
all valid prefixes. {f not, we fail immediately, rather than continue to try to build this rectangle.
The code below implements this algorithm. It is long and complex, so we will go through it step by step.
First, we do some pre-processing to group words by their lengths. We create an array of tries (one for each

word length), but hold off on building the tries until we need them.
1

WordGroup[] groupList = WordGroup.createWordGroups
(list) ;

2

int maxWordLength = groupList. length;

3

Trie trieList[] = new Trie[maxWordLength]
;

The maxRectangle method is the “main” part of our code. It starts with the biggest possible rectangle
area (which is maxWordLength7’) and tries to build a rectangle of that size. If it fails, it subtracts one from
the area and attempts this new, smaller size. The first rectangle that can be successfully built is guaranteed
to be the biggest.
4

Rectangle maxRectangle() {

2

int maxSize = maxWordLength * maxWordLength;

3

for (int z = maxSize;

4,

z > 6;

z--)

{ // start from biggest area

for (int i = 1; i <= maxWordLength; i ++ ) {

5

if (2% i == @)

{

6

tnt jf = zefeis

7

if

(j

<= maxWordLength)

{

8

/* Create rectangle of length i and height j.

g

Rectangle

616

rectangle

= makeRectangle(i,

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Jj);

Note that i * j

= z.

*/

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
1e

if (rectangle != null) return rectangle;

11

}

12

}

43

}

14

}

15
16

return

null;

}

The makeRectangle method is called by maxRectangle and tries to build a rectangle of a specific

length and height.
1

Rectangle makeRectangle(int length,

2

int height)

{

if (groupList[length-1] == null || groupList[height-1] == null) {

3

return null;

4

t

5

6

/* Create trie for word length if we haven’t yet */

7

if (trieList[height - 1]

== null)

{

g

LinkedList<String> words = groupList[height

9

trieList[height -

10

1]

-

1].getWords();

= new Trie(words);

}

11

12
13

return makePartialRectangle(length,

height,

new Rectangle(length)
);

}

The makePartialRectangle method is where the action happens. It is passed in the intended, final
length and height, and a partially formed rectangle. If the rectangle is already of the final height, then we
just check to see if the columns form valid, complete words, and return.
Otherwise, we check to see if the columns form valid prefixes. If they do not, then we immediately break
since there is no way to build a valid rectangle off of this partial one.
But, if everything is okay so far, and all the columns are valid prefixes of words, then we search through all
the words ofthe right length, append each to the current rectangle, and recursively try to build a rectangle

off of {current rectangle with new word appended}.
1
2

Rectangle makePartialRectangle(int 1,
if (rectangle.height == h)

3

if (rectangle.isComplete(1,

4

return

=

Rectangle rectangle)

h,

groupList[h -

{

rectangle

1]))

{

rectangle;

}

6

7

int h,

{ // Check if complete

return null;

}

8
3

/* Compare columns to trie to see if potentially valid rect */

16

if (!rectangle.isPartialOK(1,

12

12

trieList[h - 1]))

{

return null;

}

13

14

/* Go through all words of the

15

* rectangle,

16

for (int i = @;

right length. Add each one to the current partial

and attempt to build a rectangle recursively.
i < groupList[1-1].length();

*/

i++) {

17

/* Create a new rectangle which is this rect + new word. */

18

Rectangle orgPlus = rectangle.append(groupList[1-1].getWord(i));

19

26

/* Try to build a rectangle with this new,

21

Rectangle rect = makePartialRectangle(1,

22

if

23

(rect

!= null)

return

rect;

h,

partial rect */
orgPlus);

{

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

617

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
}

24

}

25

return null;

26

}
27

The Rectangl]le class represents a partially orfully formed rectangle of words.
The method isPartialOk

can be called to check if the rectangle is, thus far, a valid one (that is, all the columns are prefixes of words).

The method isComplete serves a similar function, but checks if each of the columns makesa full word.
1

public class Rectangle {

2

public int height,

3

public char[][]

length;

matrix;

4

5

/

6

*Construct an “empty” rectangule.

* words.

7

public Rectangle(int 1)

g

Length is

fixed,

but

height varies as we add

*/
{

height = 0;

g

length = 1;

16

}

Ata

a2

/

*Construct

a

rectangular array of letters of the specified length and height,

13

* and backed by the specified matrix of letters.

14

*

1S

16

and height specified as

* dimensions.)

*/

public Rectangle(int length,

int height, char[][] letters)

17

this.height = letters.length;

18

this.length = letters[@].length;

19
22

(It is assumed that the length

arguments are consistent with the array argument’s

{

matrix = letters;
}

24

22

public char getLetter

23

public String getColumn(int i)

(int

i,

int j)

{

{

return matrix[i][j];

}

... }

24

25

/

26

27

*Check if all columns are valid.

public boolean isComplete(int 1,

28

if

int h,

*/

WordGroup groupList)

(height == h) {

29

/

30

for

*Check if each column is a word in the dictionary.
(int

i

= 0;

i

<

1;

i++)

{

31

String col = getColumn(i);

32

if

33

(!groupList.containsWord(col))

{

return false;

34

}

35

}

36

return true;

37

}

38
39

All rows are already known to be valid since

* they were added directly from dictionary.

return false;
}

AB

AY

public boolean isPartialOK(int 1,

42

if

(height == @)

43

for (int i = 0;

return true;

i< 1;

i++ )

{

44

String col = getColumn(i);

45

if

4G
47
48

618

(!trie.contains(col))

{

return false;
}
}

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Trie trie)

{

*/

{

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
48

return true;

}

58
met

/ *Create a

52

new Rectangle by taking the rows of the

* appending s.

53

public Rectangle append(String s)

54

current rectangle and

*/

{

...

}

55i-e}

The WordGroup class is a simple container for all words of a specific length. For easy lookup, we store the

words in a hash table as well as in an ArrayList.

WON
DU
PW hy Be

The lists in WordGroup are created through a static method called createWordGroups.
public class WordGroup {
private HashMap<String,

Boolean> lookup = new HashMap<String,

Boolean>();

private ArrayList<String> group = new ArrayList<String>();
public boolean containsWord(String s) {
public int length()

public String getWord(int i)

{

(String s)

{

}

}

return group.get(i);

public ArrayList<String> getWords()
public void addWord

return lookup.containsKey(s);

{ return group.size();

return group;

}
}

{

group.add(s);
lookup.put(s, true);

}
public static WordGroup[]
WordGroup[]

createWordGroups(String[]

list)

{

groupList;

int maxWordLength = @;
/ *Find the length of the longest word

for (int i = 0; 1 <¢ list.length;

18

if (list[i].length()

i++)

*/

{

> maxWordLength)

{

maxWordLength = list[i].length();

}
}
/

*Group the words

in the dictionary into lists of words of same length.

* gsroupList[i] will contain a list of words,

each of length

(i+1).

*/

groupList = new WordGroup[maxWordLength
] ;
for
28

(int i = 0;

i < list.length;

i++)

{

/ *We do wordLength - 1 instead of just wordLength since this is used as
* an index and no words are of length @ */

29
39

int wordLength = list[i].length()

- 1;

31

if (groupList[wordLength]

{

32

groupList[wordLength]

== null)

= new WordGroup();

33

groupList[wordLength] .addWord(list[i]);

34

35

}

36

return groupList;

}

37

38

}

The full code for this problem, including the code for Trie and TrieNode, can be found in the code
attachment. Note that ina problem as complex as this, you'd most likely only need to write the pseudocode.
Writing the entire code would be nearly impossible in such a short amount of time.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

619

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
17.26 Sparse Similarity: The similarity of two documents (each with distinct words) is defined to be the
size of the intersection divided by the size of the union. For example, if the documents consist of
integers, the similarity of {1,

5,

3}and{1,

7,

2,

3}is@.4, because the intersection has size

2 and the union has size 5.

We have a long list of documents (with distinct values and each with an associated ID) where the

similarity is believed to be “sparse.” That is, any two arbitrarily selected documents are very likely to
have similarity 0. Design an algorithm that returns a list of pairs of document IDs and the associated
similarity.
Print only the pairs with similarity greater than 0. Empty documents should not be printed at all. For
simplicity, you may assume each document is represented as an array ofdistinct integers.
EXAMPLE
input:

13:

{14,

15,

16:

{32,

1,

19:

{15,

29,

24:

{7,

10}

100,
9,
2,

3,
6,

9,

3}

5}
8,

7}

Output:
ID1,

:

SIMILARITY

13,

19

ID2

:

@.1

13,

16

>

8.25

19,

24

>

@.14285714285714285
pg 190

SOLUTION
This sounds like quite a tricky problem, so let's start off with a brute force algorithm. If nothing else, it will
help wrap our heads around the problem.

Remember that each document is an array of distinct “words”, and each is just an integer.
Brute Force
A brute force algorithm is as simple as just comparing all arrays to all other arrays. At each comparison, we

compute the size of the intersection and size of the union of the two arrays.
Note that we only want to print this pair if the similarity is greater than 0. The union of two arrays can never

be zero (unless both arrays are empty, in which case we don't want them printed anyway). Therefore, we are
really just printing the similarity if the intersection is greater than 0.
How do we compute the size of the intersection and the union?

The intersection means the number of elements in common. Therefore, we can just iterate through the first

array (A) and check if each element is in the second array (B). If it is, increment an intersection variable.

To compute the union, we need to be sure that we don't double count elements that are in both. One way
to do this is to count up all the elements in A that are not in B. Then, add in all the elements in B. This will
avoid double counting as the duplicate elements are only counted with B.

Alternatively, we can think about it this way. lf we did double count elements, it would mean that elements
in the intersection (in both A and B) were counted twice. Therefore, the easy fix is to just remove these
duplicate elements.

620

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
union(A,

B) =A +B - intersection(A,

B)

This means that all we really need to do is compute the intersection.
We can derive the union, and therefore
similarity, from that immediately.

This gives us anO(AB) algorithm, just to compare two arrays {or documents).

However, we need to do this for all pairs of D documents. If we assume each document has at most W words
then the runtime is O(D? wW’).
Slightly Better Brute Force

As a quick win, we can optimize the computation for the similarity of two arrays. Specifically, we need to
optimize the intersection computation.
We need to know the number of elements in common between the two arrays. We can throw all of A‘s

elements into a hash table. Then we iterate through B, incrementing intersection every time we find
an element in A.

This takes O(A + B) time. If each array has size W and we do this for D arrays, then this takes O(D? W).
Before implementing this, let’s first think about the classes we'll need.
We'll need to return a list of document pairs and their similarities. We'll use a DocPair class for this. The
exact return type will be a hash table that maps from DocPair to a double representing the similarity.
1

public

2

class

public

DocPair {

int doci,

doc2;

3

4

public DocPair(int di, int d2) {

5

doci = di;

6

doc2 = d2;

?

t

8
S

@Override

16

public

Vi

if

boolean equals(Object
(o instanceof DocPair)

o)

{

{

12

DocPair p

13

return p.doci == doci && p.doc2 == doc2;

14

}

15

return false;

16

=

(DocPair)

0;

}

1?

18

@Override

19
20

public int hashCode()

{ return

(doci * 31)

* doc2;

}

}

It will also be useful to have a class that represents the documents.
1

public

class Document {

2

private ArrayList<Integer> words;

3

private int doclId;

4.

5

public Document (int id, ArrayList<Integer> w)

6
7
g

{

docid = id;
words = w;

}

)

18

public ArrayList<Integer> getWords()

11

public int getId() { return docId;

{ return words;

}

}

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

621

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
12

public int size() { return words == null ? @ : words.size(); }

13

}

Strictly speaking, we don't need any of this. However, readability is important, and it’s a lot easier to read
ArrayList<Document> than ArrayList<ArrayList<iInteger>>.

Doing this sort of thing not only shows good coding style, it also makes your life in an interviewa lot easier.

You have to write a lot less. (You probably would not define the entire Document class, unless you had extra
time or your interviewer asked you to.)
1.

HashMap<DocPair,

Double> computeSimilarities(ArrayList<Document> documents)

2

HashMap<DocPair,

3

for

4

(int i = @;

for

Ss

(int

Double> similarities = new HashMap<DocPair,
i

<

documents.size();

j = i+ 1;

j

i++)

{

Double>();

{

< documents.size();

j++)

{

Document doc1 = documents.get(i);

&

Document doc2 = documents.get(j);

7

double sim = computeSimilarity(doc1,

g

if (sim > @)

doc2);

{

)

DocPair pair = new DocPair(docl.getId(),

1@

Similarities.put(pair,

it

doc2.getId());

sim);

}

Aa

}

13

}

44

return similarities;

}

1s
16

17

double computeSimilarity(Document doc1,

Document doc2)

18

int intersection = 0;

19

HashSet<Integer> set1 = new HashSet<Integer>();

28

seti.addAl1(doc1.getWords());

{

24

Pa)

for (int word

23

: doc2.getWords()) {

if (set1l.contains(word)) {

24

intersection++;

25

}

26

}

2F

28

double union = doc1.size()

23

return intersection /

38

+ doc2.size()

-

intersection;

union;

}

Observe what's happening on line 28. Why did we make union a doub1e, when it's obviously an integer?
We did this to avoid an integer division bug. If we didnt do this, the division would “round” down to an
integer. This would mean that the similarity would almost always return 0. Oops!
Slightly Better Brute Force (Alternate)

if the documents were sorted, you could compute the intersection between two documents by walking
through them in sorted order, much like you would when doing a sorted merge of two arrays.

This would take O(A + B) time. This is the same time as our current algorithm, but less space. Doing this

on D documents with W words each would take O(D’ W) time.
Since we don't know that the arrays are sorted, we could first sort them. This would take O(D * W log W)
time. The full runtime then isO(D * W log W + D? W).

622

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
We cannot necessarily assume that the second part “dominates”
the first one, because it doesn’t neces-

sarily. it depends on the relative size of

Dand log W. Therefore, we need to keep both terms in our runtime

expression.

Optimized (Somewhat)

It is useful to create a larger example to really understand the problem.
13: {14,

15, 100, 9,

16:

{32,

1, 9,

19:

{15,

24:

{7,

29,
10,

3,

2,

6,

3}

5}
8,

7}

3}

At first, we might try various techniques that allow us to more quickly eliminate potential comparisons.

For example, could we compute the min and max values in each array? If we did that, then we'd know that
arrays with no overlap in ranges don't need to be compared.

The problem is that this doesn’t really fix our runtime issue. Our best runtime thus far is O(D? W). With this

change, we're still going to be comparing all O(D2) pairs, but the O(W) part might go to 0(1) sometimes.
That O(D2) part is going to be a really big problem whenD gets large.
Therefore, let’s focus on reducing that O(D) factor. That is the”bottleneck” in our solution. Specifically, this
means that, given a document doc A, we want to find all documents with some similarity—and we want to

do this without “talking” to each document.
What would make a document similar to docA? That is, what characteristics define the documents with
similarity > 0?

Suppose docA is {14,

15, 100, 9, 3}. Fora documentto have similarity > 0, it needs to havea 14, a 15,

a 100, a 9, or a 3. How can we quickly gather a list of all documents with one of those elements?
The slow (and, really, only way) is to read every single word from every single document to find the docu-

ments that contain a 14, a 15, a 100, a 9, or a 3. That will take O(DW) time. Not good.
However, note that we're doing this repeatedly. We can reuse the work from one call to the next.
If we build a hash table that maps from a word to all documents that contain that word, we can very quickly

1

->

16

OAN
DU W DH

know the documents that overlap with docA.
->

19

->

13,

->

16

16,

24

~> 19
->

19,

-~>

19

->

13,

24
16

When we want to know all the documents that overlap with docA, we just look up each of docA’s items in
this hash table. We'll then get a list of all documents with some overlap. Now, all we have to do is compare
docA to each of those documents.

If there are P pairs with similarity > 0, and each document has W words, then this will take O( PW) time (plus
O(DW) time to create and read this hash table). Since we expect P to be much less than D2, this is much
better than before.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

623

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
Optimized (Better)
Let's think about our previous algorithm. Is there any way we can make it more optimal?

If we consider the runtime—O(PW

+

DW)—we probably can't get rid of the O(DW) factor. We have to

touch each word at least once, and there are O(DW) words. Therefore, if there’s an optimization to be made,
it’s probably in the

O( PW) term.

It would be difficult to eliminate the P part in O(PW) because we have to at least print all P pairs (which

takes O(P) time). The best place to focus, then, is on the W part. Is there some way we can do less than O(W)
work for each pair of similar documents?
One way to tackle this is to analyze what information the hash table gives us. Consider this list of documents:

12:

{1,

5, 9}

13:

{5,

3,

1,

Wy

as,

3

apa}

8}

Dac ofiges, 998i
17:

{1,

6}

ifwe lookup document 12's elements ina hash table for this document, we'll get:
1 -> {12,

13,

15,

5 -> {12,

13,

15}

9 -> {12,

15}

17}

This tells us that documents 13, 15, and 17 have some similarity. Under our current algorithm, we would

now need to compare document 12 to documents 13,

15, and 17 to see the number of elements document

12 has in common with each (that is, the size of the intersection). The union can be computed from the
document sizes and the intersection, as we did before.
Observe, though, that document 13 appeared twice in the hash table, document 15 appeared three times,

and document 17 appeared once. We discarded that information. But can we use it instead? What does it
indicate that some documents appeared multiple times and others didn’t?

Document 13 appeared twice because it has two elements (1 and 5) in common. Document 17 appeared

once because it has only One element (1) in Common. Document 15 appeared three times because it has
three elements (1,5, and 9) in common. This information can actually directly give us the size of the intersection.

We could go through each document, look up the items in the hash table, and then count how many times
each document appears in each item’s lists. There’s a more direct way to do it.

1. As before, build a hash table for a list of documents.
2. Create a new hash table that maps from a document pair to an integer (which will indicate the size of
the intersection).

3. Read the first hash table by iterating through each list of documents.

4. For each list of documents, iterate through the pairs in that list. Increment the intersection count for
each pair.
Comparing this runtime to the previous one is a bit tricky. One way we can look at it is to realize that before

we were doing O(W) work for each similar pair. That's because once we noticed that two documents were
similar, we touched every single word in each document.
With this algorithm, we're only touching the words
that actually overlap.
The worst cases are still the same, but for many inputs this algorithm will be faster.
1

HashMap<DocPair,

2

computeSimilarities(HashMap<Integer,

624

Double>

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

Document>

documents)

{

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
hw

HashMapList<Integer,

Integer> wordToDocs = groupWords(documents)
;

wi

Double> similarities = computeIntersections(wordToDocs)
;

adjustToSimilarities(documents,

Ow TA

HashMap<DocPair,

return similarities;

similarities)
;

0

}
/* Create hash table from each word to where it appears.

18

HashMapList<Integer,

*/

Integer> groupWords(HashMap<Integer, Document> documents)

{

il

HashMapList<Integer, Integer> wordToDocs = new HashMapList<Integer, Integer>();

13

for

(Document doc

:

documents.values())

{

14

ArrayList<Integer> words = doc.getWords();

15

for

16

(int word

: words) {

wordToDocs.put(word,

17

doc.getId());

}

18

}

19
28

return wordToDocs;

}
21
22

23

/* Compute intersections of documents.

24

25

* then each pair within that

HashMap<DocPair,

26

list,

Iterate through each list of documents and

incrementing the intersection of each page.

HashMapList<Integer,

Integer> wordToDocs {

a

HashMap<DocPair,

28

Set<Integer> words = wordToDocs.keySet();

29

for

(int word

Double>

similarities = new HashMap<DocPair,

ArrayList<Integer> docs = wordToDocs.get(word)
;

31

Collections.sort(docs)
;

32

for

(int

for

34

i = @;

(int

i

< docs.size();

j = i+ 1;

j

i++)

{

< docs.size();

increment(similarities,

35

Double>();

: words) {

3e@

33

*/

Double> computeIntersections(

j++)

docs.get(i),

{

docs.get(j));

}

36

}

}

37
38

38

40

return similarities;

}

41

42

/* Increment the intersection size of each document pair.

43

void increment(HashMap<DocPair,

Double> similarities,

44

DocPair pair = new DocPair(doc1,

45

if (!similarities.containsKey(pair)) {

AG

Similarities.put(pair,

4?

int doc2)

{

doc2);

1.0);

} else {

48

Similarities.put(pair,

49
56

*/

int doc1,

similarities.get(pair)

+ 1);

}
}

Sl

52

/* Adjust the intersection value to become the similarity.

53

void adjustToSimilarities(HashMap<Integer,

54

55

HashMap<DocPair,

for

(Entry<DocPair,

Double> entry

:

*/

Document> documents,
Double>

similarities)

similarities.entrySet())

56

DocPair pair = entry.getKey();

57

Double intersection = entry.getValue();

58

Document doc1 = documents.get(pair.doc1);

{

{

Cracking heCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

625

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
53

Document doc2 = documents.get(pair.doc2)
;

68

double union =

§1

entry.setValue(intersection / union);

(double)

docl.size()

+ doc2.size()

-

intersection;

}

62
63

}

64

65

/* HashMapList<Integer,

66

* ArrayList<Integer>.

Integer> is a HashMap that maps from Integer to

See appendix for implementation.

*/

For a set of documents with sparse similarity, this will run much faster than the original naive algorithm,
which compares all pairs of documents directly.
Optimized (Alternative)
There's an alternative algorithm that some candidates might come up with. It’s slightly slower, but still quite
good.

Recall our earlier algorithm that computed the similarity between two documents by sorting them. We can
extend this approach to multiple documents.
Imagine we took all of the words, tagged them by their original document, and then sorted them. The prior
list ofdocuments would look like this:

1 a2?

1 137

1 15? 1 16?

2 147

3 13? 3) 14? 4 149

5 12?

5 13?

5 15? 6 16? 8 137 8 157 9.127 9 15

Now we have essentially the same approach as before. We iterate through this list of elements. For each
sequence of identical elements, we increment the intersection counts for the corresponding pair of documents.

We will use an Element class to group together documents and words. When we sort the list, we will sort

first on the word but break ties on the document ID.
1

class Element implements Comparable<Element> {

2

public

3

public Element(int w,

A

int word,

word

5

int d) {

= w;

document

6

document;

= d;

}

7

g

/* When we sort the words,

3)

public int compareTo(Element e) {

19

if

11

12

(word == e.word)

{

return document -

e.document
;

be used to compare the words.

*/

}

i. 3}

return word

14
15

this function will

-

e.word;

}
}

16

17

HashMap<DocPair,

18

Double> computeSimilarities
(

HashMap<Integer,

Document> documents)

{

ig)

ArrayList<Element> elements = sortWords (documents) ;

26

HashMap<DocPair,

2a

adjustToSimilarities(documents,

22

return similarities;

23

Double> similarities = computeintersections(elements)
;
similarities)
;

}

as

25

/* Throw all words

26

ArrayList<Element> sortWords(HashMap<Integer, Document> docs) {

27

626

into one list,

sorting by the word and then the document.

ArrayList<Element> elements = new ArrayList<Element>();

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

*/

Solutions to Chapter 17 | Hard
28

for (Document doc : docs.values()) {

29

ArrayList<Integer> words = doc.getWords();

38

for

31

(int word

:

words)

{

elements.add(new Element(word,

32
33

}

34

Collections.sort(elements)
;

35

36

doc.getId()));

}

return elements;

}

ae

38

/* Increment the intersection size of each document pair.

39

void increment(HashMap<DocPair, Double> similarities,

48

DocPair pair = new DocPair(doc1,

41

if (!similarities.containsKey(pair))

42

Similarities.put(pair,

43

doc2);
{

1.0);

} else {

44

similarities.put(pair,

45

46

*/

int doc1, int doc2) {

similarities.get(pair) + 1);

}

}

a7

48

/* Adjust the

49

HashMap<DocPair,

58

intersection value to become the

Double>

HashMap<DocPair,

similarity.

*/

computeIntersections(ArrayList<Element> elements)

Double> similarities = new HashMap<DocPair,

{

Double>();

51

52

for (int i = 0;

i < elements.size(); i++) {

53

Element left = elements.get(i);

54

for (int

j

= i+ 1;

j

< elements.size();

55

Element right = elements.get(j);

56

if (left.word

57

!= right.word) {

break;

58

}

eo

increment(similarities,

68

left.document,

right.document)
;

}

61

}

623

return similarities;

63

j++) {

}

64

65

/* Adjust the intersection value to become the similarity.

66

void adjustToSimilarities(HashMap<Integer,

67

HashMap<DocPair,

68

for

(Entry<DocPair, Double> entry :

Double> similarities)

69

DocPair pair = entry.getKey();
Double intersection = entry.getValue();

71

Document docl1 = documents.get(pair.doct1);

72

Document

73

double union = (double) doci.size() + doc2.size()

74

entry.setValue(intersection / union);

76

{

similarities.entrySet()) {

76

75

*

Document> documents,

doc2 = documents.get(pair.doc2);

- intersection;

}

}

The first step ofthis algorithm is slower than that of the prior algorithm, since it has to sort rather than just

add to a list. The second step is essentially equivalent.
Both will run much faster than the original naive algorithm.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

627

Advanced Topics

XI
This section includes topics that are mostly beyond the scope
Interviewers shouldn't be surprised if you don’t know
you want to. If you're pressed for time, they're low

of interviews but can come up On occasion.

these topics well. Feel free to dive into these topics

priority.

if

XI
Advanced Topics

WW: writing the 6th edition, | had a number of debates about what should and shouldn't be included.
Red-black trees? Dijkstra’s algorithm? Topological sort?

On one hand, I’d had a number of requests to include these topics. Some people insisted that these topics
are asked “all the time” (in which case, they have a very different idea of what this phrase means!). There was
clearly a desire—at least from some people—to include them. And learning more can’t hurt, right?
On the other hand, I know these topics to be rarely asked. It happens, of course. Interviewers are individuals
and might have their own ideas of what is "fairgame” or’relevant"for an interview. But it’s rare. When it does

come up, if you don't know the topic, it’s unlikely to be a big red flag.

|

Admittedly, as an interviewer, | have asked candidates questions where the solution was essentially an application of one of these algorithms. On the rare occasions that a candidate already
knew the algorithm, they did not benefit from this knowledge (nor were they hurt by it). | want
to evaluate your ability to solve a problem you haven't seen before. So, I'll take into account
whether you know the underlying algorithm in advance.

| believe in giving people a fair expectation of the interview, not scaring people into excess studying. | also

have no interest in making the book more “advanced” so as to help book sales, at the expense of your time
and energy. That's not fair or right to do to you.
(Additionally, | didn’t want to give interviewers—who | know to be reading this—the impression that they
can or should be covering these more advanced topics. Interviewers: If you ask about these topics, you're
testing knowledge of algorithms. You're just going to wind up eliminating a lot of perfectly smart people.)
But there are many borderline “important”topics. They‘re not often asked, but sometimes they are.
Ultimately, | decided to leave the decision in your hands. After all, you know better than | do how thorough
you want to be in your preparation. If you want to do an extra thorough job, read this. If you just love

learning data structures and algorithms, read this. If you want to see new ways of approaching problems,
read this.

But if you're pressed for time, this studying isn’t a super high priority.

>» Useful Math
Here’s some math that can be useful in some questions. There are more formal proofs that you can look
up online, but we'll focus here on giving you the intuition behind them. You can think of these as informal
proofs.

CrackingTheCodingtnterview.com | 6th Edition

629

XI. Advanced Topics
Sum of integers 1 through N
What is 1 + 2 +... +n? Let’s figure it out by pairing up low values with high values.

if nis even, we pair 1 withn, 2 withn - 1,andsoon. We will have + pairs each with sumn + 1.

If n is odd, we pair O withn, 1 withn - 1,andsoon.We will have = pairs with sum n.

pair #

a

b

a+b

pair #

a

b

a+b

1

1

n+i1

1

4)

n

n

2

2

n

3

3

-

n+1

2

1

n

-

n

n -

n+i1

3

2

n -

n

4

4

n -

n+i1

4

2

n -

n

n+1

.

~

n(nt1)

In either case, the sum is —37__ .
This reasoning comes upa lot in nested loops. For example, consider the following code:
1

for

2

(int i = @;

for

3

(int

j

=

i<n;

it)

i+ 1;

j

{

<n;

j++)

{

System.out.printin(i + j);

4
a1

}

On the first iteration of the outer for loop, the inner for loop iterates n - 1 times. On the second iteration of

the outer for loop, the inner for loop iterates n-2 times. Next,n

-

3,thenn

-

4, and soon. There are

— ~~ total iterations of the inner for loop. Therefore, this code takes O(n?) time.
Sum ofPowers of
2
Consider this sequence: 2° + 2' + 27 +... + 2". What is its result?
A nice way to see this is by looking at these values in binary.

1

2?

00010

2

2?

| 80182

4

2?

01000

8

ae

10000

16

Therefore, the sum of 2° + 2! + 2? +... + 2" would, in base 2, be a sequence of (n + 1) 1s. This is 2TM*
Takeaway: Thesum ofa sequence of powers of twois roughly equal tothe next value inthe sequence.
Bases of Logs
Suppose we have something in log, (log base 2). How do we convert that to log,? That is, what’s the

relationship between log,k and log,
k?

630

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

XI. Advanced Topics
Let's do some math. Assumec = log,kandy = log.k.
logk = c --> b§ =k

// This is the definition of log.

log, (b°) = log
k

// Take log of both sides of bs = k.

c logb = log
k

c= logk =

// Rules of logs. You can move out the exponents.

ees Aan

// Dividing above expression and substituting c.

Therefore, if we want to convert log.p to log,
,, we just do this:

log:p
logiop= Tog
.10

Takeaway: Logs of different bases are only off by a constant factor. For this reason, we largely ignore what
the base of a log within a big O expression. It doesn’t matter since we drop constants anyway.
Permutations

How many ways are there of rearranging a string of n unique characters? Well, you have n options for what

to put in the first characters, then n- 1 options for what to put in the second slot (one option is taken), then

n- 2 options for what to put in the third slot, and so on. Therefore, the total number of strings isn!.
Sal

ile

ieee

Ml Geese Ge.

What if you were forming a k-length string (with all unique characters) from n total unique characters? You
can follow similar logic, but you'd just stop your selection/multiplication earlier.
|

Thekyt To

osdto-2*n-3*... * poked

Combinations

Suppose you have a set of n distinct characters. How many ways are there of selecting k characters into
a new set (where order doesn’t matter)? That is, how many k-sized subsets ate f ere out of n distinct
elements? This is what the expression n-choose-k means, which is often written

k

Imagine we madea list of all the sets by first writing all k-length substrings and then taking out the duplicates.

From the above Permutations section, we’d have Wy. k)! k-length substrings.
Since each k-sized subset can be rearranged k! unique ways into a string, each subset will be duplicated k!
times in this list of substrings. Therefore, we need to divide by k! to take out these duplicates.

(=
n!
k/
ki
(n-k)!
k!(n-k)!
Proof by Induction

Induction is a way of proving something to be true. It is closely related to recursion. It takes the following
form.

Task: Prove statement P(k) is true forall k >= b.

+

Base Case: Prove the statement is true for

P(D). This is usually just a matter of plugging in numbers.

*

Assumption: Assume the statement is true for P(n).

*

inductive Step: Prove that ifthe statement is true for

P(n), then it’s true forP(n+1).

This is like dominoes. If the first domino falls, and one domino always knocks over the next one, then all the
dominoes must fall.
Let’s use this to prove that there are 2" subsets of an n-element set.

-

Definitions:letS = {a,,

a,,

a,,

...,

a,} bethen-element
set.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

631

XI. Advanced Topics
-

Base case: Prove there are 2° subsets of { }. This is true, since the only subset of {} is {}.

-

Assume that there are 2" subsets of {a,,

a,,

a,,

..-,

a}.

-

nei
Prove that there are 2"
subsets of {a,,

a,,

A,,

---,

A,,,f.

.--,

a,,,}. Exactly haff will contain a,, and half will not.

Consider the subsets of {a,,

a,,

a,

The subsets that do not contain a,
, are just the subsets of {a,,

a,, 59

a Az,

+++,

a,}.We assumed

there are 2" of those.
Since we have the same number of subsets with x as without x, there are 2" subsets with Atos

Therefore, we have 2° + 2"subsets, which is 2"?.
Many recursive algorithms can be proved valid with induction.

> Topological Sort
A topological sort of a directed graph is a way of ordering the list of nodes such that if (a,

b) is an edge

in the graph then a will appear before b in the list. If a graph has cycles or is not directed, then there is no
topological sort.

There area number ofapplications for this. For example, suppose the graph represents parts on an assembly
line. The edge (Handle, Door) indicates that you need to assemble the handle before the door. The topo-

logical sort would offer a valid ordering for the assembly line.
We can construct a topological sort with the following approach.
1. Identify all nodes with no incoming edges and add those nodes to our topological sort.
»

We know those nodes are safe to add first since they have nothing that needs to come before

them. Might as well get them over with!
»

We know that such a node must exist if there’s no cycle. After all, if we picked an arbitrary node

we could just walk edges backwards arbitrarily. We'll either stop at some point (in which case
we've found a node with no incoming edges) or we'll return to a prior node (in which case there
is a cycle).

2. When we do the above, remove each node’s outbound edges from the graph.
»

Those nodes have already been added to the topological sort, so they're basically irrelevant. We
can't violate those edges anymore.

3.

Repeat the above, adding nodes with no incoming edges and removing their outbound edges. When all
the nodes have been added to the topological sort, then we are done.

More formally, the algorithm is this:
1. Create a queue order, which will eventually store the valid topological sort. It is currently empty.
2. Create a queue processNext, This queue will store the next nodes to process.

3. Count the number of incoming edges of each node and set a class variable node. inbound. Nodes typically only store their outgoing edges. However, you can count the inbound edges by walking through

each node n and, for each of its outgoing edges (n, x), incrementing x. inbound.
4. Walkthrough the nodes again and add to processNext any node where
5. While processNext is not empty, do the following:
»

632

Remove first node n from processNext.

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

x.inbound ==

Xl. Advanced Topics
»

Foreachedge(n, x),decrementx. inbound. Ifx.inbound ==
@,append
x
toprocessNext.

»

Appendn

toorder.

6. If order contains all the nodes, then it has succeeded. Otherwise, the topological sort has failed due
to acycle.

This algorithm does sometimes come up ininterview questions. Your interviewer probably wouldn't expect
you to know it offhand. However, it would be reasonable to have you derive it even if you've never seen it

before.

> Dijkstra’s Algorithm
In some graphs, we might want to have edges with weights. If the graph represented cities, each edge
might represent a road and its weight might represent the travel time. In this case, we might want to ask,
just as your GPS mapping system does, what's the shortest path from your current location to another point
p? This is where Dijksta’s algorithm comes in.

Dijkstra’s algorithm is a way to find the shortest path between two points in a weighted directed graph
(which might have cycles). All edges must have positive values.
Rather than just stating what Dijkstra’s algorithm is, let's try to derive it. Consider the earlier described
graph. We could find the shortest path from s to t by literally taking all possible routes using actual time.
(Oh, and we'll need a machine to clone ourselves.)
1. Start off ats.

2. For each of s's outbound edges, clone ourselves and start walking. Ifthe edge (S, x) has weight 5, we
should actually take 5 minutes to get there.

3. Each time we get to a node, check if anyone's been there before. If so, then just stop. We're automatically
not as fast as another path since someone beat us here from s. If no one has been here before, then
clone ourselves and head out in all possible directions.

4. The first one to get to t wins.
This works just fine. But, of course, in the real algorithm we don't want to literally use a timer to find the
shortest path.

Imagine that each clone could jump immediately from one node to its adjacent nodes (regardless of the
edge weight), but it kept a time_so_far log of how long its path would have taken if it did walk at the

“true” speed. Additionally, only one person moves at a time, and it’s always the one with the lowest time_

so_ far. This is sort of how Dijkstra’s algorithm works.
Dijkstra’s algorithm finds the minimum weight path from a start node s to every node on the graph.
Consider the following graph.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

633

XI. Advanced Topics

Assume we are trying to find the shortest path from a to 1.We'll use Dijkstra’s algorithm to find the shortest
path from a to all other nodes, from which we will clearly have the shortest path from a to i.
We first initialize several variables:

path_weight[node
]: maps from each node to the total weight of the shortest path. All values are
initialized to infinity, except for path_weight [a] which is initialized to 0.
-

previous[node ]: maps from each node to the previous node in the (current) shortest path.
remaining: a priority queue of all nodes in the graph, where each node's priority is defined by its
path_weight.

Once we've initialized these values, we can start adjusting the values of path_weight.

|

A (min) priority queue is an abstract data type that—at least in this case—supports insertion of
an object and key, removing the object with the minimum key, and decreasing a key. (Think of
it like a typical queue, except that, instead of removing the oldest item, it removes the item with
the lowest or highest priority.) It is an abstract data type because it is defined by its behavior (its
operations). Its underlying implementation can vary. You could implement a priority queue with
an array or a min (or max) heap (or many other data structures).

We iterate through the nodes in remaining (until remaining is empty), doing the following:
1. Select the node in remaining with the lowest value in path_weight. Call this node n.

2. For each adjacent node, compare path_weight[x] (which is the weight of the current shortest path

from ato x)topath_weight[n] + edge _weight[(n,

x) ]. That is, could we get a path from a to

x with lower weight by going through n instead of our current path? If so, update path_weight and
previous.
3. Remove n from remaining.

When remaining is empty, then path_weight stores the weight of the current shortest path from a to
each node. We can reconstruct this path by tracing through previous.
Let's walk through this on the above graph.

1. The first value of n is a. We look at its adjacent nodes (b, c, and e), update the values of path_weight
(to 5, 3, and 2) and previous (to a) and then remove a from remaining.
2. Then, we goto the next smallest node, which is e. We previously updated path_weight[e ] to be 2. Its

adjacent nodes are h and i, so we update path_weight (to 6 and 9) and previous

634

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

for both ofthose.

XI. Advanced Topics
Observe that 6 is path_weight[e

| (which is 2) + the weight of the edge (e,

h) (whichis 4).

3. The next smallest node is c, which has path_weight 3. Its adjacent nodes are b and d. The value of

path_weight[d] is infinity, so we update it to 4 (whichis path_weight[c] + weight(edge c,
d). The value of path_weight[b] has been previously set to 5. However, since path_weight[c
]
+

weight(edge

c,

b) (whichis 3 +1 = 4) is less than 5, we update path_weight[b] to 4 and

previous toc. Thisindicates that we would improve the path from a to b by going through c.

We continuedoing
this until remaining
is empty. The following diagram shows the changes
to the path
__
weight (left) and previous (right) at each step. The topmost row shows the current value for n (the node

eels

we are removing from remaining). We black out a row after it has been removed from remaining.

removed

removed
a

removed

oles

eae

eae

sop

removed

a

—

—

om

ae

exica

removed

a

es
eeho
B

ge

=o
a
a

od

Cd

aa

removed

Once we're done, we can follow this chart backwards, starting at i to find the actual path. Jn this case, the
smallest weight path has weight

8andisa

->

c

->

d

->

g ->

i.

Priority Queue and Runtime

As mentioned earlier, our algorithm used a priority queue, but this data structure can be implemented in
different ways.

The runtime of this algorithm depends heavily on the implementation of the priority queue. Assume you
have v vertices and e nodes.

:

If you implemented the priority queue with an array, then you would call remove_min up to v times.

Each operation would take O(v) time, so you'd spend O( v2) time in the remove_min calls. Additionally, you would update the values of path_weight and previous at most once per edge, so that’s

O(e) time doing those updates. Observe that e must be less than of equal to v’ since you can’t have
more edges than there are pairs of vertices. Therefore, the total runtime is O( v2).
-

If you implemented the priority queue with a min heap, then the remove_min calls will each take

O(log v) time (as will inserting and updating a key). We will do one remove_min call for each vertex,

so that’sO(v

log v) (v vertices atO(log v) time each). Additionally, on each edge, we might call

one update key or insert operation, so that’s O(e log v).ThetotalruntimeisO((v + e)

log v).

Which one is better? Well, that depends. If the graph has a lot of edges, then v2 will be close to e. In this

case, you might be better off with the array implementation, as O(v*) is better thanO((v

+ v’*)

log

v ). However, if the graph is sparse, then e is much less than v2. In this case, the min heap implementation
may be better.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

635

XI. Advanced Topics
> Hash Table Collision Resolution
Essentially any hash table can have collisions. There are a number of ways of handling this.
Chaining with Linked Lists

With this approach (which is the most common), the hash table’s array maps to a linked list of items. We
just add items to this linked list. As long as the number of collisions is fairly small, this will be quite efficient.

In the worst case, lookup is O(n), where n is the number of elements in the hash table. This would only
happen with either some very strange data or a very poor hash function (or both).
Chaining with Binary Search Trees
Rather than storing collisions in a linked list, we could store collisions in a binary search tree. This will bring

the worst-case runtime toO(log n).
In practice, we would rarely take this approach unless we expected an extremely nonuniform distribution.
Open Addressing with Linear Probing

In this approach, when a collision occurs (there is already an item stored at the designated index), we just
move onto the next index in the array until we find an open spot. (Or, sometimes, some other fixed distance,
like the index + 5.)
If the number of collisions is low, this is a very fast and space-efficient solution.
One obvious drawback of this is that the total number of entries in the hash table is limited by the size of
the array. This is not the case with chaining.
There's another issue here. Consider a hash table with an underlying array of size 100 where indexes 20
through 29 are filled (and nothing else). What are the odds of the next insertion going to index 30? The odds
are 10% because an item mapped to any index between 20 and 30 will wind up at index 30. This causes an
issue called clustering.

Quadratic Probing and Double Hashing
The distance between probes does not need to be linear. You could, for example, increase the probe
distance quadratically. Or, you could use a second hash function to determine the probe distance.

> Rabin-Karp Substring Search
The brute force way to search for a substring S in a larger string B takes O(S(b-S) ) time, where s is the
length of
S and b is the length of B. We do this by searching through the firstb

-

s + 1 characters inB

and, for each, checking if the next s characters match S.
The Rabin-Karp algorithm optimizes this with a little trick: if two strings are the same, they must have the
same hash value. (The converse, however, is not true. Two different strings can have the same hash value.)

Therefore, if we efficiently precompute a hash value for each sequence of s characters within B, we can find

the locations ofS inO(b) time. We then just need to validate that those locations really do match S.
For example, imagine our hash function was simply the sum of each character (where space = 0, a = 1,b =
2, and so on). if

Sisear andB=doe

are

hearing

me, we'd then just be looking for sequences where

the sum is 24 (e +a +1). This happens three times. For each of those locations, we'd check if the string really
is ear.

636

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Xl. Advanced Topics

code:

Poqeo TE

at FZ

On

sum of next 3:

41 } 30} 21 | 20] 18

3S

lf we computed these sums by doing hash(‘ doe"), thenhash(‘oe *),thenhash(‘e a’ ),andsoon,
we would still be atO(s(b-s)

) time.

Instead, we compute
the hash values by recognizing thathash(’*oe ') = hash('doe’) - code('d’)

+ code('

'). This takes O(b) time to compute all the hashes.

You might argue that, still, in the worst case this will take O(s (b-s) ) time since many of the hash values
could match. That's absolutely true—for this hash function.

In practice, we would use a better rolling hash function, such as the Rabin fingerprint. This essentially treats
a String like doe as a base 128 (or however many characters are in our alphabet) number.
hash('doe')

= code('d')

* 128? + code('o')

* 128? + code('e')

* 128°

This hash function will allow us to remove the d, shift the 0 and e, and then add in the space.
hash('oe

')

=

(hash('doe')

-

code('d')

* 1287)

* 128 + code('

‘')

This will considerably cut down on the number of false matches. Using a good hash function like this will

give us expected time complexity of

O(s + b), although the worst case is O( sb).

Usage of this algorithm comes up fairly frequently in interviews, so it’s useful to know that you can identify
substrings in linear time.

>» AVL Trees
An AVL tree is one of two common ways to implement tree balancing. We will only discuss insertions here,
but you can look up deletions separately if you're interested.

Properties

An AVL tree stores in each node the height of the subtrees rooted at this node. Then, for any node, we can

check if it is height balanced: that the height ofthe left subtree and the height of the right subtree differ by
no more than one. This prevents situations where the tree gets too lopsided.

balance(n)

= n.left.height - n.right.height

-1 <= balance(n) <= 1
Inserts

When you insert a node, the balance of some nodes might change to -2 or 2. Therefore, when we “unwind”
the recursive stack, we check and fix the balance at each node. We do this through a series of rotations.
Rotations can be either left or right rotations. The right rotation is an inverse of the left rotation.

CrackingTheCoding|nterview.com | 6th Edition

637

XI. Advanced Topics

Depending on the balance and where the imbalance occurs, we fix it in a different way.
*

Case 1: Balance is 2.

In this case, the left’s height is two bigger than the right’s height. If the left side is larger, the left subtree's
extranodes must be hanging to the left (as in LEFT LEFT SHAPE) or hanging to the right (as in LEFT RIGHT
SHAPE). If it looks like the LEFT RIGHT SHAPE, transform it with the rotations below into the LEFT LEFT
SHAPE then into BALANCED. If it looks like the LEFT LEFT SHAPE already, just transform it into BALANCED.

LEFT RIGHT SHAPE

*

LEFT LEFT SHAPE

BALANCED

LEFT

RIGHT

ROTATION

ROTATION

Case 2: Balance is -2.

This case is the mirror image of the prior case. The tree will look like either the RIGHT LEFT SHAPE or the
RIGHT RIGHT SHAPE. Perform the rotations below to transform it into BALANCED.

RIGHT LEFT SHAPE

RIGHT RIGHT SHAPE

BALANCED

RIGHT

LEFT

ROTATION

ROTATION

—>

—>

in both cases, “balanced”
just means that the balance of the tree is between -1 and 1. It does not mean
that the balance is 0.
We recurse up the tree, fixing any imbalances. If we ever achieve a balance of0 on a subtree, then we know
that we have completed all the balances. This portion of the tree will not cause another, higher subtree to
have a balance of -2 or 2. If we were doing this non-recursively, then we could break from the loop.

638

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

XI. Advanced Topics
> Red-Black Trees

Red-black trees (a type of self-balancing binary search tree) do not ensure quite as strict balancing, but the

balancing is still good enough to ensure O(log N) insertions, deletions, and retrievals. They require a bit
less memory and can rebalance faster (which means faster insertions and removals), so they are often used
in situations where the tree will be modified frequently.
Red-black trees operate by enforcing a quasi-alternating red and black coloring (under certain rules,

described below) and then requiring every path from a node to its leaves to have the same number of black
nodes. Doing so leads to a reasonably balanced tree.
The tree below is a red-black tree (where the red nodes are indicated with gray):

Properties

1. Every node is either red or black.
2. The root is black.
3. The leaves, which are NULL nodes, are considered black.
4.

Every red node must have two black children. That is, a red node cannot have red children (although a
black node can have black children).

5. Every path from a node to its leaves must have the same number of black children.

Why It Balances
Property #4 means that two red nodes cannot be adjacent in a path (e.g., parent and child). Therefore, no
more than half the nodes in a path can be red.
Consider two paths from a node (say, the root) to its leaves. The paths must have the same number of
black nodes (property #5), so let’s assume that their red node counts are as different as possible: one path
contains the minimum number of red nodes and the other one contains the maximum number.
Path 1 (Min Red): The minimum number of red nodes is zero. Therefore, path 1 has b nodes total.
Path 2 (Max Red): The maximum number of red nodes is b, since red nodes must have black children and
there are b black nodes. Therefore, path 2 has 2b nodes total.

Therefore, even in the most extreme case, the lengths of paths cannot differ by more than a factor of two.

That's good enough to ensure anO(log N) find and insert runtime.
If we can maintain these properties, we'll have a (sufficiently) balanced tree—good enough to ensure

O(log N) insert and find, anyway. The question then is how to maintain these properties efficiently. We'll
only discuss insertion here, but you can look up deletion on your own.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

639

Xi. Advanced Topics
Insertion

inserting a new node into a red-black tree starts off with a typical binary search tree insertion.
«

New nodes are inserted at a leaf, which means that they replace a black node.

«

New nodes are always colored red and are given two black leaf (NULL) nodes.

Once we've done that, we fix any resulting red-black property violations. We have two possible violations:
*

Red violations: A red node has a red child (or the root is red).

«

Black violations: One path has more blacks than another path.

The node inserted is red. We didn't change the number of black nodes on any path to a leaf, so we know that
we won't have a black violation. However, we might have a red violation.

In the special case that where the root is red, we can always just turn it black to satisfy property 2, without
violating the other constraints.
Otherwise, if there's a red violation, then this means that we have a red node under another red node. Oops!
Let's call N the current node. P is N’s parent. Gis N’s grandparent. U is N’s uncle and P’s sibling. We know that:
*

Nis red and P is red, since we have a red violation.

>

Gis definitely black, since we didnt previously have a red violation.

The unknown parts are:
*

Ucould be either red or black.

*

Ucould be either a left or right child.

*

Ncould be either a left or right child.

By simple combinatorics, that’s eight cases to consider. Fortunately some of these cases will be equivalent.
-

Case 1: Uis red.

It doesn't matter whether U is a left or right child, nor whether P is a left or right child.
We can merge four

of our eight cases into one.
If U is red, we can just toggle the colors of P, U, and G. Flip G from black to red. Flip P and U from red to
black. We haven't changed the number of black nodes in any path.

However, by making G red, we might have created a red violation with G's parent. If so, we recursively
apply the full logic to handle a red violation, where this G becomes the new N.

Note that in the general recursive case, N, P. and U may also have subtrees in place of each black NULL
(the leaves shown). In Case 1, these subtrees stay attached to the same parents, as the tree structure

remains unchanged.

640

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Xl. Advanced Topics

Case 2: U is black.

We'll need to consider the configurations (left vs. right child) of N and U. In each case, our goal is to fix up
the red violation (red on top of red) without:

»

Messing up the ordering of the binary search tree.

»

Introducing a black violation (more black nodes on one path than another).

if we can do this, we're good. In each of the cases below, the red violation is fixed with rotations that
maintain the node ordering.
Further, the below rotations maintain the exact number of black nodes in each path through the affected

portion of the tree that were in place beforehand.
The children of the rotating section are either NULL
leaves or subtrees that remain internally unchanged.
Case A:N and P are both left children.

We resolve the red violation with the rotation of N, P, and G and the associated recoloring shown below.
If you picture the in-order traversal, you can see the rotation maintains the node ordering (a <= N <=
b

<=

P

<=

c

<=

G

<= U). The tree maintains the same, equal number of black nodes in the path

down to each subtree a, b, c, and U (which may all be NULL) .

Case B: P is a left child, and N is aright child.
The rotations in Case B resolve the red violation and maintain the in-order property:a <= P <= b <=
N

<=

c

<= G

<= U. Again, the count of the black nodes remains constant in each path down to the

leaves (or subtrees).

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

641

XI. Advanced Topics
Case C:

Nand P are both right children.

This is a mirror image of case A.

Case D:N

is a left child, and P is a right child.

This is a mirror image of case B.

In each of Case 2's subcases, the middle element by value of N, P, and G is rotated to become the root of
what was G’s subtree, and that element and G swap colors.
That said, do not try to just memorize these cases. Rather, study why they work. How does each one ensure

no red violations, no black violations, and no violations of the binary search tree property?

> MapReduce

MapReduce is used widely in system design to process large amounts of data. As its name suggests, a
MapReduce program requires you to write a Map step and a Reduce step. The rest is handled by the system.

1. The system splits up the data across different machines.
2.

Each machine starts running the user-provided Map program.

3. The Map program takes some data and emits
4.

a<key,

value> pair.

The system-provided Shuffle process reorganizes the data so that all <key, value> pairs associated
with a given key go to the same machine, to be processed by Reduce.

5. The user-provided Reduce program takes a key and a set of associated values and “reduces” them in

some way, emitting a new key and value. The results of this might be fed back into the ReduCe program
for more reducing.

The typical example of using MapReduce—basically the “Hello World” of MapReduce—is counting the
frequency of words within a set of documents.

642

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

XI. Advanced Topics
Of course, you could write this as a single function that reads in all the data, counts the number of times
each word appears via a hash table, and then outputs the result.
MapReduce allows you to process the document in parallel. The Map function reads in a document and

emits just each individual word and the count (which is always 1). The Reduce function reads in keys
(words) and associated values (counts). It emits the sum of the counts. This sum could possibly wind up as

input for another call to Reduce on the same key (as shown in the diagram).
1

ak

void

map(String name, String document):

for each word w in document:

3

emit(w,

1)

4

5

void

reduce(String word,

Iterator partialCounts):

6

int sum = @

7

for each count in partialCounts:

8

is)

sum +=

count

emit(word, sum)

The diagram below shows how this might work on this example.

Input

Split

Map

Shuffle

Reduce

do, Nese

:

Wi etdagg eee

or

goat gor.

go, 1)/ \BO? 7BoA
go,

1|
Pea)

s)

ewe

eee

a|

go do
gd-—go
do
gd—do,

go at go

Final

Asai

at, 1

go, 407 895 3

89.1

go,1

G4... 5!

/

go, 5

Here’s another example: You havea list of data in the form {City, Temperature, Date}. Calculate the average
temperature in each city every year. For example {(2012, Philadelphia, 58.2), (2011, Philadelphia, 56.6),
(2012, Seattle, 45.1)}.

+

Map: The Map step outputs a key value pair where the key is City_Year and the value is

(Temperature, 1).The’1’reflects that this is the average temperature out of one data point. This will
be important for the Reduce step.
Reduce: The Reduce step will be given a list of temperatures that correspond with a particular city and
year. It must use these to compute the average temperature for this input. You cannot simply add up the
temperatures and divide by the number of values.
To see this, imagine we have five data points for a particular city and year: 25, 100, 75, 85, 50. The Reduce

step might only get some of this data at once. If you averaged {75, 85} you would get 80. This might end
up being input for another Reduce step with 50, and it would be a mistake to just naively average 80 and
50. The 80 has more weight.
Therefore, our Reduce step instead takes in {(80, 2), (50, 1)}, then sums the weighted temperatures. So it
does 80 * 2+ 50* 1 and then divides by (2 + 1) to get an average temperature of 70. It then emits (70, 3).
Another Reduce step might reduce {(25, 1), (100, 1)} to get (62.5, 2). If we reduce this with (70, 3) we get
the final answer: (67, 5). In other words, the average temperature in this city for this year was 67 degrees.

We could do this in other ways, too. We could have just the city as the key, and the value be (Year, Temperature, Count). The Reduce step would do essentially the same thing, but would have to group by Year itself.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

643

XI. Advanced Topics
In many cases, it’s useful to think about what the Reduce step should do first, and then design the Map

step

around that. What data does Reduce need to have to do its job?

> Additional Studying
So, you've mastered this material and you want to learn even more? Okay. Here are some topics to get you
started:
-

Bellman-Ford Algorithm: Finds the shortest paths from a single node in a weighted directed graph

with positive and negative edges.
+

Floyd-Warshall Algorithm: Finds the shortest paths in a weighted graph with positive or negative
weight edges (but no negative weight cycles).

-

Minimum Spanning Trees: In a weighted, connected, undirected graph, a spanning tree is a tree that

connects all the vertices. Fhe minimum spanning tree is the spanning tree with minimum weight. There
are various algorithms to do this.
-

B-Trees: A self-balancing search tree (not a binary search tree) that is commonly used on disks or other
storage devices. It is similar to a red-black tree, but uses fewer I/O operations.

+

A*: Find the least-cost path between a source node and a goal node (or one of several goal nodes). It
extends Dijkstra’s algorithm and achieves better performance by using heuristics.

-

Interval Trees: An extension of a balanced binary search tree, but storing intervals (low -> high ranges)
instead of simple values. A hotel could use this to storea list of all reservations and then efficiently detect
who is staying at the hotel at a particular time.

+

Graph coloring: A way of coloring the nodes in a graph such that no two adjacent vertices have the
same color. There are various algorithms to do things like determine if a graph can be colored with only
K colors.

«

P, NP, and NP-Complete: P NP and NP-Complete refer to classes of problems. P problems are prob-

lems that can be quickly solved (where “quickly” means polynomial time). NP problems are those where,
given a solution, the solution can be quickly verified. NP-Complete problems are a subset of NP problems that can all be reduced to each other (that is, if you found a solution to one problem, you could

tweak the solution to solve other problems in the set in polynomial time).
It is an open (and very famous) question whether P = NP, but the answer is generally believed to be no.
-

Combinatorics and Probability: There are various things you can learn about here, such as random
variables, expected value, and n-choose-k.

*

Bipartite Graph: A bipartite graph is a graph where you can divide its nodes into two sets such that
every edge stretches across the two sets (that is, there is never an edge between two nodes in the same
set). There is an algorithm to check if a graph is a bipartite graph. Note that a bipartite graph is equivalent to a graph that can be colored with two colors.

*

Regular Expressions: You should know that regular expressions exist and what they can be used for

(roughly). You can also learn about how an algorithm to match regular expressions would work. Some of
the basic syntax behind regular expressions could be useful as well.
There is of course a great deal more to data structures and algorithms. If you're interested in exploring
these topics more deeply, | recommend picking up the hefty /ntroduction to Algorithms ("“CLRS” by Cormen,
Leiserson, Rivest and Stein) or The Algorithm Design Manual (by Steven Skiena).

644

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Code Library

Xl
Certain patterns came up while implementing

full code for a solution with the solution, but
This appendix provides the code
The complete compilable solut

the code for this book. We've tried to

in some cases it got quite redundant.

generally include the

for a few of the most useful chun

ions can be downloaded from

ks of code.

CrackingTheCodingintervi

ew.com,

Xl
Code Library

Cc patterns came up while implementing the code for this book. We've tried to generally include
the full code for a solution with the solution, but in some cases it got quite redundant.
This appendix provides the code for a few of the most useful chunks of code.

All code for the book can be downloaded from CrackingTheCodinglnterview.com.

> HashMapList<T, E>

The HashMapL
ist class is essentially shorthand for HashMap<T, ArrayList<E>>. it allows us to map
from an item of type ofT to an ArrayList of type E.
For example, we might want a data structure that maps from an integer to a list of strings. Ordinarily, we’d
have to write something like this:
i

HashMap<Integer,

2

ArrayList<String>> maplist =

new HashMap<Integer,

3

for

(String s

:

ArrayList<String>>();

strings)

{

4

int key = computeValue(s)
;

5

if (!maplist.containsKey(key)) {

6

maplist.put(key,

new ArrayList<String>());

7

}

8

maplist.get
(key) .add(s);

Ss

4}

Oh
Ww
Pe ie

Now, we can just write this:
HashMapList<Integer, String> maplist = new HashMapList<Integer,
for (String s

:

strings)

String>();

{

int key = computeValue(s)
;

maplist.put(key,

s);

}
public class HashMapList<T,

E> {

private HashMap<T, ArrayList<E>> map = new HashMap<T, ArrayList<E>>();
/* Insert item into list at key.

public void put(T key,

E item)

if (!map.containskey(key))
map.put(key,

646

*/

{
{

new ArrayList<E>());

map.get (key) .add(item)
;

w

CO “i ay Ut Ba tl NA) be

=

‘s not a big change, but it makes our code a bit simpler.

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

XI. Code Library
1e

}

11

12

/* Insert list of items at key.

13

public void put(T key, ArrayList<E> items) {

14

map.put(key,

15

*/

items)
;

}

16

17

/* Get list of items at key.

18

public ArrayList<E> get(T key) {

19

*/

return map.get(key);

28

}

21

22

/* Check if hashmaplist contains key.

23

public boolean containsKey(T key)

24

*/

{

return map.containsKey(key)
;

25

}

26

27

/* Check if list at key contains value.

2%

public boolean containsKeyValue(T key,

ne

ArrayList<E> list = get(key);

3¢

if (list == null)

31

return list.contains(value)
;

*/

E value) {

return false;

}

32
33

34

/* Get the list of keys.

35

public Set<T> keySet() {

36

*/

return map. keySet();

}

37
38

3p

@Override

40

public String toString()

41

return map.toString();
}

42

43

{

}

> TreeNode (Binary Search Tree)
While it’s perfectly fine—even good—to use the built-in binary tree class when possible, it’s not always

possible. In many questions, we needed access to the internals of the node or tree class (or needed to tweak
these) and thus couldn't use the built-in libraries.
The TreeNode class supports a variety of functionality, much of which we wouldn't necessarily want for
every question/solution. For example, the TreeNode class tracks the parent of the node, even though we

often don’t use it (or specifically ban using it).
For simplicity, we'd implemented this tree as storing integers for data.
1

public class TreeNode {

2

public int data;

3

public TreeNode left,

4

private int size = Q;

right,

parent;

5)

6

public TreeNode(int d) {

a

data

8

size = 1;

= d;

9

Cracking heCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

647

XI. Code Library
128

ii

public void insertInOrder(int d)

{

if (d <= data) {

Va
43

if

14

(left == null)

{

setLeftChild(new TreeNode(d)
);

} else {

he)
16

left.insertiInOrder
(d) ;

ie

}

18

} else {

if (right == null) {

19
20

setRightChild(new TreeNode(d));

} else {

21

Bo.

right .insertinOrder
(d) ;

a3

}

24

}

25

sizet++;

26

}

Qu

28

public int size()

29

return size;

38

{

}

31

32

public TreeNode find(int d) {

crs)

if (d == data) {

34

return this;

35

} else if (d <= data)

36

return left

37

} else if (d > data)

38

{

!= null ? left.find(d)

:

return right != null ? right.find(d)

39

null;

{
:

null;

}

4e

return

null;

}

41
42

43

public void setLeftChild(TreeNode left)

44

this.left = left;

45

if (ler

46

Tart)

{

{

left.parent = this;

47

}

48

}

as

50

public void setRightChild(TreeNode right)

51

this.right = right;

52

if

53

(right

!= null)

{

{

right.parent = this;

54

}

55

}

56

57

}

This tree is implemented to be a binary search tree. However, you can use it for other purposes. You would
just need to use the
setLeftChild/setRightChild
methods,
or the left and right child variables.
For this reason, we have kept these methods and variables public. We need this sort of access for many
problems.

648

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

XI. Code Library

> LinkedListNode (Linked List)
Like the TreeNode class, we often needed access to the internals of a linked list in a way that the built-in
linked list class wouldn't support. For this reason, we implemented our own class and used it for many

problems.
1

= =public

class

LinkedListNode {

2

public LinkedListNode next, prev,

3

public

4

public LinkedListNode(int d,

5

data = d;

6

setNext(n);

7

last;

int data;

LinkedListNode n,

LinkedListNode p){

setPrevious(p);

8

}

2

410

public LinkedListNode(int d) {
data = d;

41

12

}

is}

i4

public

LinkedListNode()

{ }

15

16

public void setNext(LinkedListNode n) {

17

next

18

if (this == last) {

19

=

n;

last =n;

20

21

if (n

22

!= null && n.prev

!= this) {

n.setPrevious (this) ;

23

}

24

}

25

29

public void setPrevious(LinkedListNode p)

2?

prev =

p;

28

if (p

!= null && p.next

re

!= this)

{

{

p.setNext (this) ;

36

}

31

}

32

23

public LinkedListNode clone()

34

LinkedListNode next2 =

35

if

36

(next

!= null)

{

null;

{

next2 = next.clone();

37

}

38

LinkedListNode head2 = new LinkedListNode(data,

39

return head2;

A
41

next2,

null);

}
}

Again, we've kept the methods and variables public because we often needed this access. This would allow
the user to “destroy”
the linked list, but we actually needed this sort of functionality for our purposes.

> Trie & TrieNode
The trie data structure is used in a few problems to make it easier to look up if a word is a prefix of any other
words in a dictionary (or list of valid words). This is often used when we're recursively building words so that

we can short circuit when the word is not valid.

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

649

XI. Code Library
1

public

class Trie {

2

// The root of this trie.

3

private TrieNode root;

4

5

/* Takes a list of strings as an argument,

&

* these

7

strings.

public Trie(ArrayList<String>

8

root = new TrieNode();

g

for (String word : list) f

16

and constructs a trie that stores

*/
list)

{

root .addWord (word);

11

}

1

}

13
14

15

/* Takes a list of strings as an argument,

16

* these

17

strings.

public Trie(String[]

list)

18

root = new TrieNode();

19

for

28

and constructs a trie that stores

*/

(String word

:

{

list)

{

root.addwWord (word) ;

21

}

22

}

23

24

/* Checks whether this trie contains a string with the prefix passed in as

25

* argument.

26

public

27

*/

boolean contains(String prefix,

boolean exact)

{

TrieNode lastNode = root;

28

int i = @;

29

for

(i = @;

i <

prefix.length();

32

lastNode

31

if (lastNode == null) {

32

i++)

{

= lastNode.getChild(prefix.charAt(i));

return false;

33

}

34

}

35

return

36

!exact

||

lastNode.terminates();

}

37

38

public

ae

boolean contains(String prefix)

return contains (prefix,

48

{

false);

+

Al

42

public TrieNode getRoot() {

43

return

4A
45

root;

}
}

The Trie class uses the TrieNode class, which is implemented below.
public class TrieNode {

1

a

/* The children of this node in the trie.*/

3

private HashMap<Character,

4

private boolean terminates = false;

TrieNode> children;

5

6

/* The character stored in this node as data.*/

a

private

char character;

3

9

/* Constructs

128

650

an empty trie

* empty hash map.

node and

initializes the list of its children to an

Used only to construct the root node of the trie.

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

*/

XI. Code Library
a0

public TrieNode()

i?

{

children = new HashMap<Character, TrieNode>()
;

13

}

14

15

/* Constructs a trie node and stores this character as the node's value.

16

* Initializes the list of child

1?

public TrieNode(char character) {

18

nodes of this

node to an empty hash map.

*/

this();

19

this.character = character;

28

}

21

22

/* Returns the character data stored in this node.

23

public char getChar()

24

return

25

*/

{

character;

}

26

la

/* Add this word to the trie, and recursively create the child

28

* nodes.

29

*/

public void addWord(String word)

39

if (word == null

{

|| word.isEmpty()) {

return;

31

32

}

BS

34

char firstChar = word.charAt(Q);

Bs

36

TrieNode child = getChild(firstChar)
;

37

TE

38

CoGhi
le ==onwl)

{

child = new TrieNode(firstChar)
;

39

children.put(firstChar,

48

child)
;

}

Al

a2

if (word.length()

43

> 1)

{

child.addwWord(word.substring(1)
);

44

} else {

45

child.setTerminates(true)
;

A6

}

47

}

48
49

/* Find

58

*

51

null

a

child node of this

if no such

child

node that

node

is

public TrieNode getChild(char c)

52

return

has

present

in

the

char argument

the trie.

as

its

data.

Return

*/

{

children. get(c);

}

52
54

DS

/*

56

public boolean terminates()

S?

Returns whether this

node

represents

the

end of

a

complete word.

*/

{

return terminates;

58

}

59

69

/* Set whether this

61

public void setTerminates(boolean t)

62

is the end of a complete word.*/
{

terminates = t;

}

63

64

node

}

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com| 6th Edition

651

xill
otervewers
usualy drt just hand you

question and expect you

fer guidance when youre tuck. especially

to solve it Rather.

the interview expeina
rien
book, but
ce
these hints are designed
to get you
Thy to salve the questions independently when possible,
But it's
really

ve

they wil typically

on the harder questions.’ impossible to totaly

simulate

cose

okay to

struggling Again, stru ia
ggli
normalng
part ofthe process

organ
the ize
hints somewhat randomly her, such thal the hints for
ap

way you wont accidently
see the

ec

ie reading the frst hint.

blem areit adjacent. Thi

Hints for Data Structures

#1.

1.2

Describe what it means for two strings to be permutations of each other. Now, look at

that definition you provided. Can you check the strings against that definition?
#2.

3.1

A stack is simply a data structure in which the most recently added elements are

removed first. Can you simulate a single stack using an array? Remember that there are

many possible solutions, and there are tradeoffs of each.
#3.

24

There are many solutions to this problem, most of which are equally optimal in runtime.
Some have shorter, cleaner code than others. Can you brainstorm different solutions?

#4,

4.10

lf T2 is a subtree of T1, how will its in-order traversal compare to T1’s? What about its
pre-order and post-order traversal?

#5.

2.6

A palindrome is something which is the same when written forwards and backwards.

What if you reversed the linked list?
#6.

4.12

Try simplifying the problem. What if the path had to start at the root?

#7.

2.5

Of course, you could convert the linked lists to integers, compute the sum, and then
convert it back to a new linked list. If you did this in an interview, your interviewer would
likely accept the answer, and then see if you could do this without converting it to a
number and back.

#8.

2.2

What if you knew the linked list size? What is the difference between finding the Kth-tolast element and finding the Xth element?

#9.

2.1

Have you tried a hash table? You should be able to do this in a single pass of the linked
list.

#10.

48

If each node has a link to its parent, we could leverage the approach from question 2.7
on page 95. However, our interviewer might not let us make this assumption.

#11.

4.10

The in-order traversals won't tell us much. After all, every binary search tree with the
same values (regardless of structure) will have the same in-order traversal. This is what
in-order traversal means: contents are in-order. (And if it won’t work in the specific case
of a binary search tree, then it certainly won't work for a general binary tree.) The preorder traversal, however, is much more indicative.

#12.

3.1

We could simulate three stacks in an array byjust allocating the first third of the array to

the first stack, the second third to the second stack, and the final third to the third stack.

One might actually be much bigger than the others, though. Can we be more flexible
with the divisions?

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

653

[| Hints for Data Structures
#13.

2.6

#14.

AnD

Try using a stack.
Don't forget that paths could overlap. For example, if you're looking for the sum 6, the
paths 1- >3->2 and 1->3->2->4->-6->2 are both valid.

#15.

3.5

One way of sorting an array is to iterate through the array and insert each element into
a new array in sorted order. Can you do this with a stack?

#16.

48

The first common ancestor is the deepest node such that p and q are both descendants.
Think about how you might identify this node.

#17.

ie

If you just cleared the rows and columns as you found Os, you'd likely wind up clearing
the whole matrix. Try finding the cells with zeros first before making any changes to the
matrix.

#18.

4.10

You may have concluded that if T2.preorderTraversal() is a substring of

T1.preorderTraversal(), then T2 is a subtree of T1. This is almost true, except
that the trees could have duplicate values. Suppose T1 and T2 have all duplicate values

but different structures. The pre-order traversals will look the same even though T2 is
not a subtree of T1. How can you handle situations like this?

#19.

4.2

A minimal binary tree has about the same number of nodes on the left of each node as
on the right. Let's focus on just the root for now. How would you ensure that about the
same number of nodes are on the left of the root as on the right?

#20.

2.7

You can do this in O( A+B) time and 0(1) additional space. That is, you do not need a
hash table (although you could do it with one).

#21.

44

Think about the definition of a balanced tree. Can you check that condition for a single
node? Can you check it for every node?

#22.

3.6

We could consider keeping a single linked list for dogs and cats, and then iterating
through it to find the first dog (or cat). What is the impact of doing this?

#23.

1.5

#24,

2.4

Start with the easy thing. Can you check each ofthe conditions separately?
Consider that the elements don't have to stay in the same relative order. We only need
to ensure that elements less than the pivot must be before elements greater than the
pivot. Does that help you come up with more solutions?

#25.

2.2

If you don't know the linked list size, can you compute it? How does this impact the
runtime?

#26.

47

Build a directed graph representing the dependencies. Each node is a project and an
edge exists from A to B if B depends on A (A must be built before B). You can also build
it the other way if it’s easier for you.

#27.

oy

Observe that the minimum element doesn't change very often. it only changes when a

smaller element is added, or when the smallest element is popped.

#28.

48

How would you figure out if p is a descendent ofa node n?

#29.

2.6

Assume you have the length of the linked list. Can you implement this recursively?

#30.

2.5

Try recursion. Suppose you have two lists, A

2->3->6->7

=

1->5->9 (representing 951) andB

=

(representing 7632), and a function that operates on the remainder of the

lists (5->9 and 3->6->7). Could you use this to create the sum method? What is the

relationship between sum(1->5->9,

654

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

2->3->6->7) andsum(5->9,

3->6->7)?

I| Hints for Data Structures
#31.

4.10

Although the problem seems like it stems from duplicate values, it's really deeper than
that. The issue is that the pre-order traversal is the same only because there are null
nodes that we skipped over (because they're null). Consider inserting a placeholder
value into the pre-order traversal string whenever you reach a null node. Register the

null node as a“real” node so that you can distinguish between thedifferent structures.
#32.

3.5

Imagine your secondary stack is sorted. Can you insert elements into it in sorted order?

You might need some extra storage. What could you use for extra storage?
#33.

4.4

If you've developed a brute fOrce solution, be careful about its runtime. If you are
computing the height of the subtrees for each node, you could have a pretty inefficient
algorithm.

#34.

1.9

If a string is a rotation of another, then it’s a rotation at a particular point. For example,
a rotation of waterbottle at character 3 means cutting waterbott1le at character 3

and putting the right half (erbottle) before the left half (wat).
#35.

4.5

If you traversed the tree using an in-order traversal and the elements were truly in
the right order, does this indicate that the tree is actually in order? What happens for

duplicate elements? If duplicate elements are allowed, they must be on a specific side
(usually the left).
#36.

48

Start with the root. Can you identify if root is the first common ancestor? If it is not, can
you identify which side of root the first common ancestor is on?

#37.

4.10

Alternatively, we can handle this problem recursively. Given a specific node within T1,

can we check to see if its subtree matches T2?
#38.

3.1

If you want to allow for flexible divisions, you can shift stacks around. Can you ensure
that all available capacity is used?

#39.

4.9

What is the very first value that must be in each array?

#40.

2.1

Without extra space, you'll need O(N’) time. Try using two pointers, where the second
one searches ahead of the first one.

#41.

2.2

Try implementing it recursively. If you could find the (K-1)th to last element, can you
find the Kth element?

#42,

4.11

Be very careful in this problem to ensure that each node is equally likely and that

your solution doesn't slow down the speed of standard binary search tree algorithms

(like insert, find, and delete). Also, remember that even if you assume that it's a
balanced binary search tree, this doesn’t mean that the tree is full/complete/perfect.
#43.

3.5

Keep the secondary stack in sorted order, with the biggest elements on the top. Use the
primary stack fOr additional storage.

#44.

1.1

Try a hash table.

#45.

2.7

Examples will help you. Draw a picture of intersecting linked lists and two equivalent
linked lists (by value) that do not intersect.

#46.

48

Try a recursive approach. Check if p and q are descendants of the left subtree and the
right subtree. If they are descendants of different subtrees, then the current node is the

first common ancestor. If they are descendants of the same subtree, then that subtree
holds the first common ancestor. Now, how do you implement this efficiently?

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

655

I| Hints for Data Structures
#47.

4.7

Look at this graph. Is there any node you can identify that will definitely be okay to build
first?

#48.

49

The root is the very first value that must be in every array. What can you say about the
order of the values in the left subtree as compared to the values in the right subtree? Do
the left subtree values need to be inserted before the right subtree?

#49.

44

What if you could modify the binary tree node class to allow a node to store the height
of its subtree?

#50.

2.8

There are really two parts to this problem. First, detect if the linked list has a loop.
Second, figure out where the loop starts.

#51.

1.7

#52.

4.12

Try thinking about it layer by layer. Can you rotate a specific layer?
if each path had to start at the root, we could traverse all possible paths starting from
the root. We can track the sum as we go, incrementing totalPaths each time we
find a path with our target sum. Now, how do we extend this to paths that can start
anywhere? Remember: Just get a brute-force algorithm done. You can optimize later.

#53.

ire

It’s often easiest to modify strings by going from the end of the string to the beginning.

#54.

4.11

This is your own binary search tree class, so you can maintain any information about the
tree structure or nodes that you'd like (provided it doesn't have other negative implica-

tions, like making insert much slower). In fact, there’s probably a reason the interview
question specified that it was your own class. You probably need to store some additional information in order to implement this efficiently.
#55.

2.7

#56.

3.6

Focus first on just identifying if there’s an intersection.
Let’s suppose we kept separate lists for dogs and cats. How would we find the oldest
animal of any type? Be creative!

#57.

45

To be a binary search tree, it's not sufficient that the left.value

value

<

<=

current.

right.value for each node. Every node on the left must be less than the

current node, which must be Jess than all the nodes on the right.
#58.

3.1

Try thinking about the array as circular, such that the end of the array “wraps around“to
the start of the array.

#59.

3.2

What if we kept track of extra data at each stack node? What sort of data might make it
easier to solve the problem?

#60.

4.7

if you identify a node without any incoming edges, then it can definitely be built. Find

this node (there could be multiple) and add it to the build order. Then, what does this
mean for its outgoing edges?
#61.

2.6

In the recursive approach (we have the length of the list), the middle is the base case:

isPermutation(middle) is true. The node x to the immediate left of the middle:
What can that node do to check if x- >middle->y forms a palindrome? Now suppose
that checks out. What about the previous node a? If x- >middle->y is a palindrome,

how can it check that
#62.

411

a- >x- >middle->y->b is a palindrome?

As a naive “brute force” algorithm, can you use a tree traversal algorithm to implement
this algorithm? What is the runtime of this?

656

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

| Hints for Data Structures

#63.

3.6

Think about how you'd do it in real life. You have a list of dogs in chronological order and
a list of cats in chronological order. What data would you need to find the oldest animal?
How would you maintain this data?

#64.

3.3

You will need to keep track of the size of each substack. When one stack is full, you may
need to create a new stack.

#65.

2.7

Observe that two intersecting linked lists will always have the same last node. Once they
intersect, all the nodes after that will be equal.

#66.

4.9

The relationship between the left subtree values and the right subtree values is, essentially, anything. The left subtree values could be inserted before the right subtree, or the
reverse (right values before left), or any other ordering.

#67.

oe

You might find it useful to return multiple values. Some languages don't directly support

this, but there are workarounds in essentially any language. What are some of those
workarounds?
#68.

4.12

To extend this to paths that start anywhere, we can just repeat this process for all nodes.

#69.

2.8

To identify if there’s a cycle, try the “runner” approach described on page 93. Have one
pointer move faster than the other.

#70.

48

In the more naive algorithm, we had one method that indicated if x is a descendent
of n, and another method that would recurse to find the first common ancestor. This is
repeatedly searching the same elements in a subtree. We should merge this into one

firstCommonAncestor function. What return values would give us the information
we need?
#71.

2.5

Make sure you have considered linked lists that are not the same length.

#72.

2.3

Picture the list

1- >5- >9->12. Removing 9 would make it look like 1- >5->12.You only

have access to the 9 node. Can you make it look like the correct answer?
#73.

4.2

You could implement this by finding the “ideal” next element to add and repeatedly

calling insertValue. This will be a bit inefficient, as you would have to repeatedly
traverse the tree. Try recursion instead. Can you divide this problem into subproblems?
#74.

1.8

Can you use O(N) additional space instead of O(N’)? What information do you really
need from the list of cells that are zero?
Alternatively, you could pick a random depth to traverse to and then randomly traverse,

#75.

stopping when you get to that depth. Think this through, though. Does this work?
#76.

DS

You can determine if two linked lists intersect by traversing to the end of each and
comparing their tails.

#77.

4.12

if you've designed the algorithm as described thus far, you'll have anO(N

log

N)

algorithm in a balanced tree. This is because there are Nnodes, each ofwhich is at depth
O(log

N) at worst. A node is touched once for each node above it. Therefore, the N

nodes wilt be touched O(log

O(N)
#78.

3.2

N) time. There is an optimization that will give us an

algorithm.

Consider having each node know the minimum of its “substack” (all the elements
beneath it, including itself).

#79.

4.6

Think about how an in-order traversal works and try to “reverse engineer’ it.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

657

I| Hints for Data Structures
#80.

48

The firstCommonAncestor function could return the first common ancestor (if p
and q are both contained in the tree), p if p is in the tree and not q, q if q is in the tree

and not p, and nul
1 otherwise.
#81.

3.3

Popping an element at a specific substack will mean that some stacks aren't at full
capacity. !s this an issue? There’s no right answer, but you should think about how to
handle this.

#82.

4.9

Break this down into subproblems. Use recursion. If you had all possible sequences for
the left subtree and the right subtree, how could you create all possible sequences for
the entire tree?

#83.

2.8

You can use two pointers, one moving twice as fast as the other. If there is a cycle, the

two pointers will collide. They will land at the same location at the same time. Where do
they land? Why there?
#84,

1.2

There is one solution that isO(N log N) time. Another solution uses some space, but
is O(N) time.

#85.

4.7

Once you decide to build a node, its outgoing edge can be deleted. After you've done
this, can you find other nodes that are free and clear to build?

#86.

4.5

If every node on the left must be less than or equal to the current node, then this is really

the same thing as saying that the biggest node on the left must be less than or equal to
the current node.
#87.

4.12

What work is duplicated in the current brute-force algorithm?

#88.

ie

We are essentially asking if there's a way of splitting the first string into two parts, x and
y, such that the first string is xy and the second string is yx. For example, x = wat and

y

=

erbottle. The first string is xy

=

waterbottle.
The second string is yx

=

erbottlewat.
#89.

4.11

Picking a random depth wont help us much. First, there’s more nodes at lower depths
than higher depths. Second, even if we re-balanced these probabilities, we could
hit a “dead end” where we meant to pick a node at depth 5 but hit a leaf at depth 3.
Re-balancing the probabilities is an interesting , though.

#90.

2.8

If you havent identified the pattern of where the two pointers start, try this: Use the
linked list 1->2->3->4->5->6->7->8->9->?, where the ? links to another node. Try
making the ? the first node (that is, the 9 points to the 1 such that the entire linked list
is a loop). Then make the ? the node 2. Then the node 3. Then the node 4. What is the
pattern? Can you explain why this happens?

#91.

4.6

Here's one step of the logic: The successor of a specific node is the leftmost node of the
right subtree. What if there is no right subtree, though?

#92.

1.6

#93.

27

Do the easy thing first. Compress the string, then compare the lengths.
Now, you need to find where the linked lists intersect. Suppose the linked lists were the
same length. How could you do this?

658

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

I| Hints for Data Structures
#94.

4.12

Consider each path that starts from the root (there are N such paths) as an array. What

our brute-force algorithm is really doing is taking each array and finding all contiguous
subsequences that have a particular sum. We're doing this by computing all subarrays

and their sums. It might be useful to just focus on this little subproblem. Given an array,
how would you find all contiguous subsequences with a particular sum? Again, think
about the duplicated work in the brute-force algorithm.
#95.

2.5

Does your algorithm work on linked lists like 9->7->8 and 6->8->5? Double check that.

#96.

4.8

Careful! Does your algorithm handle the case where only one node exists? What will
happen? You might need to tweak the return values a bit.

#97.

1.5

What is the relationship between the “insert character” option and the “remove character” option? Do these need to be two separate checks?

#98.

3.4

The major difference between a queue and a stack is the order of elements. A queue
removes the oldest item and a stack removes the newest item. How could you remove
the oldest item from a stack if you only had access to the newest item?

#99,

4.11

A naive approach that many people come up with is to pick a random number between

1 and 3. ff it’s 1, return the current node. If it’s 2, branch left. If it’s 3, branch right. This
solution doesn’t work. Why
#100.

1.7

not? Is there a way you can adjust it to make it work?

Rotating a specific layer would just mean swapping the values in four arrays. If you were
asked to swap the values in two arrays, could you do this? Can you then extend it to four
arrays?

#101.

2.6

Go back to the previous hint. Remember: There are ways to return multiple values. You

can do this with a new class.
#102.

1.8

You probably need some data storage to maintain a list of the rows and columns that

need to be zeroed. Can you reduce the additional space usage to 0(1) by using the
matrix itself for data storage?
#103.

4.12

We are looking for subarrays with sum targetSum. Observe that we can track in
constant
time
the value of runningSum,, where this is the sum from
element
0
through
element i. For a subarray of element i through elementj to have sum targetSum,

runningSum,, +

targetSum must equal runningSum, (try drawing a picture of

an array ora number line). Given that we can track the runningSum as we go, how can
we quickly look up the number of indices i where the previous equation is true?
#104.

1.9

Think about the earlier hint. Then think about what happens when you concatenate

erbottlewat to itself. You get erbottlewaterbottlewat.
#105.

44

You don’t need to modify the binary tree class to store the height of the subtree. Can
your recursive function compute the height of each subtree while also checking if a
node is balanced? Try having the function return multiple values.

#106.

14

You do not have to—and should not—generate all permutations. This would be very

inefficient.
#107.

43

Try modifying a graph search algorithm to track the depth from the root.

#108.

4.12

Try using a hash table that maps from a runningSum value to the number of elements

|

with this runningSum.

CrackingTheCodingI|nterview.com | 6th Edition

659

1| Hints for Data Structures
#109.

2.5

For the follow-up question:
The issue is that when the linked lists aren’t the same length,
the head of one linked list might represent the 1000's place while the other represents
the 10’s place. What if you made them the same length? Is there a way to modify the
linked list to do that, without changing the value it represents?

#110.

1.6

Be careful that you aren‘t repeatedly concatenating strings together. This can be very
inefficient.

#111.

yey

If the two linked lists were the same length, you could traverse forward in each until you
found an element in common. Now, how do you adjust this for lists of different lengths?

#112.

4.11

The reason that the earlier solution (picking a random number between 1 and 3) doesn't

work is that the probabilities for the nodes won't be equal. For example, the root will be

returned with probability YZ, , even if there are 50+ nodes in the tree. Clearly, not all the
nodes have probability 1/, ,so these nodes won't have equal probability. We can resolve

this one issue by picking a random number between 1 and size_of_tree instead.
This only resolves the issue fOr the root, though. What about the rest of the nodes?
#113.

4.5

Rather than

validating

the

current

node’s value against

leftTree.max

and

rightTree.min, can we flip around the logic? Validate the left tree’s nodes to ensure

that they are smaller than current .value.
#114.

3.4

We can remove the oldest item from a stack by repeatedly removing the newest item
(inserting those into the temporary stack) until we get down to one element. Then, after
we've retrieved the newest item, putting all the elements back. The issue with this is

that doing several pops in a row will require O(N) work each time. Can we optimize for
scenarios where we might do several pops in a row?
#115.

4.12

Once you've solidified the algorithm to find all contiguous subarrays in an array with a

given sum, try to apply this to a tree. Remember that as you're traversing and modifying
the hash table, you may need to “reverse the damage’ to the hash table as you traverse
back up.
#116.

4.2

Imagine we had a createMinimalTree method that returns a minimal tree for a
given array (but fOr some strange reason doesn't operate on the root of the tree). Could
you use this to operate on the root of the tree? Could you write the base case for the
function? Great! Then that’s basically the entire function.

#117.

1.1

Could a bit vector be useful?

#118.

1.3

You might find you need to know the number of spaces. Can you just count them?

#119.

4.11

The issue with the earlier solution is that there could be more nodes on one side of a

node than the other. So, we need to weight the probability of going left and right based
on the number of nodes on each side. How does this work, exactly? How can we know
the number of nodes?
#120.

2.7

Try using the difference between the lengths of the two linked lists.

#121.

1.4

What characteristics would a string that is a permutation of a palindrome have?

#122.

1.2

Could a hash table be useful?

#123.

4.3

A hash table or array that maps from level number to nodes at that level might also be
useful.

660

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

[| Hints for Data Structures

#124.

44

Actually, you can just have a single checkHeight function that does both the height
computation and the balance check. An integer return value can be used to indicate
both.

#125.

47

As a totally different approach: Consider doing a depth-first search starting from an arbi-

trary node. What is the relationship between this depth-first search and a valid build
order?
#126.

2.2

Can you do it iteratively? Imagine if you had two pointers pointing to adjacent nodes
and they were moving at the same speed through the linked list. When one hits the end
of the linked jist, where will the other be?

#127.

4.1

Two well-known algorithms can do this. What are the tradeoffs between them?

#128.

A5

Think about the checkBST function as a recursive function that ensures each node is

within an allowable (min,

max) range. At first, this range is infinite. When we traverse

to the left, the min is negative infinity and the max is root. value. Can you implement
this recursive function and properly adjust these ranges as you traverse the tree?
#129.

2.7

If you move a pointer in the longer linked list forward by the difference in lengths, you
can then apply
a similar approach to the scenario when the linked lists are equal.

#130.

Aes)

Can you do all three checks in a single pass?

#131.

1.2

Two strings that are permutations should have the same characters, but in different
orders. Can you make the orders the same?

#132.

1.1

#133.

4.7

Can you solve itinO(N log N) time? What might a solution like that look like?
Pick an arbitrary node and do a depth-first search on it. Once we get to the end of a path,
we know that this node can be the last one built, since no nodes depend on it. What
does this mean about the nodes right before it?

#134.

1.4

Have you tried a hash table? You should be able to get this down to O(N) time.

#135.

4.3

You should be able to come up with an algorithm involving both depth-first search and
breadth-first search.

#136.

1.4

Can you reduce the space usage by using a bit vector?

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com
| 6th Edition | 661

Hints for Concepts and Algorithms

#137.

5.1

Break this into parts. Focus first on clearing the appropriate bits.

#138.

8.9

Try the Base Case and Build approach.

#139.

6.9

Given a specific door x, on which rounds will it be toggled (open or closed)?

#140.

11.5

What does the interviewer mean by a pen? There are a lot of different types of pens.
Make a list of potential questions you would want to ask.

#141,

7.11.

This is not as complicated as it sounds. Start by making a list of the key objects in the
system, then think about how they interact.

#142.

9.6

First, start with making some assumptions.
What do and don’t you have to build?

#143.

5.2

To wrap your head around the problem, try thinking about how you'd do it for integers.

#144,

8.6

Try the Base Case and Build approach.

#145.

5.7

Swapping each pair means moving the even bits to the left and the odd bits to the right.
Can you break this problem into parts?

#146.

6.10

Solution 1: Start with a simple approach. Can you just divide up the bottles into groups?
Remember that you can't re-use a test strip once it is positive, but you can reuse it as
long as it’s negative.

#147.

5.4

Get Next: Start with a brute force solution for each.

#148.

8.14

Can we just try all possibilities?
What would this look like?

#149,

6.5

Play around with the jugs of water, pouring water back and forth, and see if you can
measure anything other than 3 quarts or 5 quarts. That’s a start.

#150.

8.7

Approach 1: Suppose you had all permutations of abc. How can you use that to get all

permutations of abcd?

#151.

S13)

Reverse engineer this, starting from the outermost layer to the innermost layer.

#152.

8.1

Approach this from the top down. What is the very last hop the child made?

#153.

Ja

Note that a “card deck” is very broad. You might want to think about a reasonable scope
to the problem.

#154.

6.7

Observe that each family will have exactly one girl.

#155.

8.13

Will sorting the boxes help in any way?

662

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

It | Hints for Concepts and Algorithms
#156.

6.8

This is really an algorithm problem, and you should approach it as such. Come up with
a brute force, compute the worst-case number of drops, then try to optimize that.

#157.

6.4

In what cases will they not collide?

#158.

9.6

We've assumed that the rest of the eCommerce system is already handled, and we just

need to deal with the analytics part of sales rank. We can get notified somehow when a
purchase occurs.
#159.

5.3

Start with a brute force solution. Can you try all possibilities?

#160.

6.7

Think about writing each family as a sequence of Bs and Gs.

#161.

8.8

You could handle this by just checking to see if there are duplicates before printing

them (or adding them to a list). You can do this with a hash table. In what case might this
be okay? In what case might it not be a very good solution?
#162.

9.7

#163.

6.10

Will this application be write-heavy or read-heavy?
Solution 1: There is a relatively simple approach that works in 28 days, in the worst case.
There are better approaches though.

Consider the scenario of a pen for children. What does this mean? What are the different

#164,

use cases?
#165.

9.8

Scope the problem well. What will and won't you tackle as part of this system?

#166.

8.5

Think about multiplying 8 by 9 as counting the number of cells in a matrix with width 8
and height 9.

#167.

5.2

In

anumber like . 893 (in base 10), what does each digit signify? What then does each

digit in
#168.

8.14

.10019 signify in base 2?

We can think about each possibility as each place where we can put parentheses. This
means around each operator, such that the expression is split at the operator. What is
the base case?

#169.

5.1

To clear the bits, create a “bit mask” that looks like a series of 15, then Os, then 1s.

#170.

8.3

Start with a brute force algorithm.

#171.

6.7

You can attempt this mathematically, although the math is pretty difficult. You might

find it easier to estimate it up to families of, say, 6 children. This won't give you a good
mathematical proof, but it might point you in the right direction of what the answer
might be.
#172.

6.9

#173.

5.2

In which cases would a door be left open at the end of the process?

A number such as . 893 (in base 10) indicates 8

*

102+ 9

*

107 + 3

*

10%.

Translate this system into base 2.
#174.

8.9

Suppose we had all valid ways of writing two pairs of parentheses. How could we use
this to get all valid ways of writing three pairs?

#175.

5.4

Get Next: Picture a binary number—something with a bunch of 1s and Os spread out
throughout the number. Suppose you flip a 1 to

a0 and a 0 toa

1. In what case will the

number get bigger? In what case will it get smaller?

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

663

Il | Hints for Concepts and Algorithms
#176.

9.6

Think about what sort of expectations on freshness and accuracy of data is expected.
Does the data always need to be 100% up to date? Is the accuracy of some products

more important than others?

#177.

10.2

How do you check if two words are anagrams of each other? Think about what the definition of “anagram’ is. Explain it in your own words.

#178.

8.1

If we knew the number of paths to each ofthe steps before step 100, could we compute
the number of steps to 100?

#179.

7.8

Should white pieces and black pieces be the same class? What are the pros and cons of
this?

#180.

9.7

Observe that there is a lot of data coming in, but people probably aren't reading the
data very frequently.

#181.

6.2

Calculate the probability of winning the first game and winning the second game, then
compare them.

#182.

10.2.

Two words are anagrams if they contain the same characters but in different orders.
How can you put characters in order?

#183.

6.10

Solution 2: Why do we have such a time lag between tests and results? There's a reason
the question isn’t phrased as just “minimize the number of rounds of testing.”
The time
lag is there for a reason.

#184.

9.8

How evenly do you think traffic is distributed? Do ali documents get roughly the same
age of traffic? Or is it likely there are some very popular documents?

#185.

8.7

Approach 1: The permutations of abc represent all ways of ordering abc. Now, we want

to create all orderings of abcd. Take a specific ordering of abcd, such as bdca. This
bdca string represents an ordering of abc, too: Remove the d and you get bca. Given
the string bca, can you create all the “related” orderings that include d, too?

#186.

6.1

You can only use the scale once. This means that all, or almost all, of the bottles must
be used. They also must be handled in different ways or else you couldnt distinguish
between them.

#187.

8.9

We could try generating the solution for three pairs by taking the list of two pairs of

parentheses and adding a third pair. We'd have to add the third paren before, around,

and after. That is: ()<SOLUTION>,

(<SOLUTION>),

<SOLUTION>(). Will this

work?
#188.

6.7

Logic might be easier than math. Imagine we wrote every birth into a giant string of Bs

and Gs. Note that the groupings of families are irrelevant for this problem. What is the
probability of the next character added to the string being a B versus a G?
#189.

9.6

Purchases will occur very frequently. You probably want to limit database writes.

#190.

8.8

lf you haven't solved 8.7 yet, do that one first.

#191,

6.10

Solution 2: Consider running multiple tests at once.

#192.

76

A common trick when solving a jigsaw puzzle is to separate edge and non-edge pieces.

How will you represent this in an object-oriented manner?
#193.

10.9

Start with a naive solution. (But hopefully not too naive. You should be able to use the

fact that the matrix is sorted.)

664

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Il | Hints for Concepts and Algorithms
#194,

8.13

We can sort the boxes by any dimension in descending order. This will give us a partial

order for the boxes, in that boxes later in the array must appear before boxes earlier in
the array.
#195.

6.4

The only way they won't collide is if all three are walking in the same direction. What's
the probability of all three walking clockwise?

#196.

10.11

Imagine the array were sorted in ascending order. Is there any way you could “fix it” to
be sorted into alternating peaks and valleys?

#197.

8.14

The base case is when we havea single value, 1 or 0.

#198.

7.3

Scope the problem first and make a list of your assumptions. It's often okay to make

reasonable assumptions, but you need to make them explicit.
#199.

9.7

The system will be write-heavy: Lots of data being imported, but it’s rarely being read.

#200.

8.7

Approach 1: Given a string such as bca, you can create all permutations of abcd that

have {a,

b,

c} inthe order bca by inserting d into each possible location: dbca,

bdca, bcda, bcad. Given all permutations of abc, can you then create all permutations
of abcd?
#201.

6.7

Observe that biology hasn't changed; only the conditions under which a family stops
having kids has changed. Each pregnancy has a 50% odds of being a boy and a 50%
odds of being a girl.

#202.

5.5

What does it meanifA & B == @?

#203.

8.5

if you wanted to count the cells in an 8x9 matrix, you could count the cells in a 4x9
matrix and then double it.

#204.

8.3

Your brute force algorithm probably ran in O(N) time. If you're trying to beat that
runtime, what runtime do you think you will get to? What sorts of algorithms have that
runtime?

#205.

6.10

Solution 2: Think about trying to figure out the bottle, digit by digit. How can you detect
the first digit in the poisoned bottle? What about the second digit? The third digit?

#206.

9.8

How will you handle generating URLs?

#207.

10.6

Think about merge sort versus quick sort. Would one of them work well for this purpose?

#208.

9.6

You also want to limit joins because they can be very expensive.

#209.

8.9

The problem with the solution suggested by the earlier hint is that it might have duplicate values. We could eliminate this by using a hash table.

#210.

11.6

Be careful about your assumptions. Who are the users? Where are they using this? It
might seem obvious, but the real answer might be different.

#211.

10.9

We can do a binary search in each row. How long will this take? How can we do better?

#212.

9.7

Think about things like how you're going to get the bank data (will it be pulled or
pushed?), what features the system will support, etc.

#213.

Li

As always, scope the problem. Are “friendships” mutual? Do status messages exist? Do
you support group chat?

#214.

8.13

Try to break it down into subproblems.

CrackingfTheCodinginterview.com| 6th Edition

665

Il | Hints for Concepts and Algorithms
#215.

5.1

it's easy to create a bit mask of Os at the beginning or end. But how do you create a bit
mask with a bunch of zeroes in the middle? Do it the easy way: Create a bit mask for the
left side and then another one for the right side. Then you can merge those.

#216.

7.11

What is the relationship between files and directories?

#217.

8.1

We can compute the number of steps to 100 by the number of steps to 99, 98, and 97.
This corresponds to the child hopping 1, 2, or 3 steps at the end. Do we add those or

multiply them? That is: Is it #(10@)
(99)
#218.

6.6

* £(98)

= (99)

+ (98)

+ (97) or f(100)

=

* £(97)?

This is a logic problem, not a clever word problem. Use logic/math/algorithms to solve
it.

#219.

10.11.

Try walking through a sorted array. Can you just swap elements until you have fixed the
array?

#220.

11.5

Have you considered both intended uses (writing, etc.) and unintended use? What
about safety? You would not want a pen for children to be dangerous.

#221.

6.10

Solution 2: Be very careful about edge cases. What if the third digit in the bottle number
matches the first or second digit?

#222.

8.8

Try getting the count of each character. For example, ABCAAC has 3 As, 2 Cs, and 1B.

#223.

9.6

Don't forget that a product can be listed under multiple categories.

#224.

8.6

You can easily move the smallest disk from one tower to another. it’s also pretty easy
to move the smallest two disks from one tower to another. Can you move the smallest
three disks?

#225.

11.6

In areal interview, you would also want to discuss what sorts of test tools we have available.

#226.

5.3

Flipping a 0 to a 1 can merge two sequences of 1s—but only if the two sequences are
separated by only one 0.

#227.

8.5

Think about how you might handle

this for odd numbers,

#228.

78

What class should maintain the score?

#229.

10.9

if you're considering a particular column, is there a way to quickly eliminate it (in some
cases at least)?

#230.

6.10

Solution 2: You can run an additional day of testing to check digit 3 in a different way.

But again, be very careful about edge cases here.
#231.

10.11.

Note that if you ensure the peaks are in place, the valleys will be, too. Therefore, your

iteration to fix the array can skip over every other element.
#232.

9.8

If you generate URLs randomly, do you need to worry about collisions (two documents

with the same URL)? If so, how can you handle this?

#233.

6.8

As a first approach, you might try something like binary search. Drop it from the 50th
floor, then the 75th, then the 88th, and so on. The problem is that if the first egg drops

at the 50th floor, then you'll need to start dropping the second egg starting from the 1st

floor and going up. This could take, at worst, 50 drops (the 50th floor drop, the 1st floor
drop, the 2nd floor drop, and up through the 49th floor drop). Can you beat this?

666

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Il| Hints for Concepts and Algorithms
#234.

8.5

If there’s duplicated work across different recursive calls, can you cache it?

#235.

10.7

Would a bit vector help?

#236.

9.6

Where would it be appropriate to cache data or queue up tasks?

#237.

8.1

We multiply the values when it’s “we do this then this.” We add them when it’s “we do
this or this.’

#238.

76

Think about how you might record the position of a piece when you find it. Should it be
stored by row and location?

#239.

6.2

To calculate the probability of winning the second game, start with calculating the

probability of making the first hoop, the second hoop, and not the third hoop.
#240.

8.3

Can you solve the problem in O(log N)?

#241.

6.10

Solution 3: Think about each test strip as being a binary indicator for poisoned vs. nonpoisoned.

#242.

5.4

Get Next: If you flip a 1 toaO0 anda O toa

1, it will get bigger if the 0->1 bit is more signifi-

cant than the 1->0 bit. How can you use this to create the next biggest number (with the

same number of 1s)?
#243.

8.9

Alternatively, we could think about doing this by moving through the string and adding
left and right parens at each step. Will this eliminate duplicates? How do we know if we
can adda

#244,

9.6

left or right paren?

Depending on what assumptions you made, you might even be able to do without a

database at all. What would this mean? Would it be a good idea?
#245.

Ti7

This is a good problem to think about the major system components or technologies
that would be useful.

#246.

8.5

If you're doing 9*7 (both odd numbers), then you could do 4*7 and 5*7.

#247.

9.7

Try to reduce unnecessary database queries. If you don't need to permanently store the
data in the database, you might not need it in the database at all.

#248.

5.7

Can you create anumber that represents
just the even bits? Then can you shift the even
bits over by one?

#249.

6.10

Solution 3: If each test strip is a binary indicator, can we map, integer keys to a set of 10
binary indicators such that each key has a unique configuration (mapping)?

#250.

8.6

Think about moving the smallest disk from tower X=0 to tower Y=2_ using tower Z=1 as

a temporary holding spot as having a solution for f(1,
the smallest two disks is (2,

#251.

10.9

f(1,

X=0,

Y=2,

Z=1)?

Y=2,

X=@,

Y=2,

Z=1). Moving

X=@,

Y=2,

Z=1). Given that you have a solution for

Z=1)and(2,

X=@,

Y=2,

Z=1),canyousolvef(3,

X=,

Since each column is sorted, you know that the value can't be in this column if it’s
smaller than the min value in this column. What else does this tell you?

#252.

6.1

What happens if you put one pill from each bottle on the scale? What if you put two pills
from each bottle on the scale?

#253.

10.11

Do you necessarily need the arrays to be sorted? Can you do it with an unsorted array?

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

667

It| Hints for Concepts and Algorithms
#254.

10.7

To do it with less memory, can you try multiple passes?

#255.

8.8

To get all permutations with 3 As, 2 Cs, and 1 B, you need to first pick a starting character: A, B, or C. If it’s an A, then you need all permutations with 2 As, 2 Cs, and 1 B.

#256.

10.5

‘Try modifying binary search to handle this.

#257.

11.1

There are two mistakes in this code.

#258.

7.4

Does the parking lot have multiple levels? What “features” does it support? Is it paid?
What types of vehicles?

#259.

9.5

You may need to make some assumptions (in part because you don't have an interviewer here). That’s okay. Make those assumptions explicit.

#260.

8.13.

Think about the first decision you have to make. The first decision is which box will be at
the bottom.

#261.

23)

ifA & B == @, then it means that A and B never have a 1 at the same spot. Apply this
to the equation in the problem.

#262.

8.1

What is the runtime of this method? Think carefully. Can you optimize it?

#263.

10.2

Can you leverage a standard sorting algorithm?

#264.

6.9

Note: If an integer x is divisible bya, andb = x / a,thenx

is also divisible by b. Does

this mean that all numbers have an even number of factors?

#265.

8.9

Adding a left or right paren at each step will eliminate duplicates. Each substring will be
unique at each step. Therefore, the total string will be unique.

#266.

10.9

If the value x is smaller than the start of the column, then it also can't be in any columns
to the right.

#267.

8.7

Approach 1:You can create all permutations of abcd by computing all permutations of

abc and then inserting d into each possible location within those.

#268.

11.6

#269.

5.2

What are the different features and uses we would want to test?
How would you get the first digit in . 893? If you multiplied by 10, you'd shift the values
over to get 8.93.What happens if you multiply by 2?

#270.

9.2

To find the connection between two nodes, would it be better to do a breadth-first
search or depth-first search? Why?

#271.

77

#272.

8.6

How will you know if a user signs offline?
Observe that it doesn't really matter which tower is the source, destination, or buffer.

You cando (3, X=0, Y=2, Z=1) byfirst doing f(2, X=@, Y=1, Z=2) (moving
two disks from tower 0 to tower 1, using tower 2 as a buffer), then moving disk 3 from

tower 0 to tower 2, then doing

f(2, X=1, Y=2, Z=@) (moving two disks from tower

1 to tower 2, using tower 0 as a buffer). How does this process repeat?

#273.

8.4

How can you build all subsets of {a,

#274.

oS)

Think about how you could design this for a single machine. Would you want a hash
table? How would that work?

#275.

668

7.1

How, if at all, will you handle aces?

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

b,

c} fromthe subsets of fa,

b}?

Il | Hints for Concepts and Algorithms
#276.

9,7

As much work as possible should be done asynchronously.

#277.

10.11

Suppose you had a sequence of three elements ({9,

1,

2}, in any order. Write out all

possible sequences for those elements and how you can fix them to make 1 the peak.
#278.

8.7

Approach 2: If you had all permutations of two-character substrings, could you generate
all permutations of three-character substrings?

#279.

10.9

Think about the previous hint in the context of rows.

#280.

8.5

Alternatively, if you’re doing 9 * 7, you could do 4*7, double that, and then add 7.

#281.

10.7

Try using one pass to get it down to a range of values, and then a second pass to find a
specific value.

#282.

6.6

Suppose there were exactly one blue-eyed person. What would that person see? When
would they leave?

#283.

7.6

Which will be the easiest pieces to match first? Can you start with those? Which will be
the next easiest, once you've nailed those down?

If two events are mutually exclusive (they can never occur simultaneously), you can add

#284.

their probabilities together. Can you find a set of mutually exclusive events that represent making two out of three hoops?
#285.

ey

A breadth-first search is probably better. A depth-first search can wind up going ona
long path, even though the shortest path is actually very short. Is there a modification

to a breadth-first search that might be even faster?

Binary search has a runtime of O(log N).Can you apply a form of binary search to the

#286.

problem?
#287.

TW

In order to handle collisions, the hash table should be an array of linked lists.

#288.

10.9

What would happen if we tried to keep track of this using an array? What are the pros
and cons of this?

#289.

10.8

Can you use a bit vector?

#290.

8.4

Anything that is a subset of {a,
subsets of {a,

#291.

10.9

b,

b} is alsoa subset of {a,

c}butnot{a,

b,

cc}. Which sets are

b}?

Can we use the previous hints to move up, down, left, and right around the rows and
columns?

#292.

10.11

Revisit the set of sequences for {@,

1,

2} that you just wrote out. Imagine there are

elements before the leftmost element. Are you sure that the way you swap the elements
won't invalidate the previous part of the array?
#293.

9.5

Can you combine a hash table and a linked list to get the best of both worlds?

#294.

6.8

It's actually better for the first drop to be a bit lower. For example, you could drop at the
10th floor, then the 20th floor, then the 30th floor, and so on. The worst case here will be
19 drops (10, 20, ..., 100, 91, 92, ..., 99). Can you beat that? Try not randomly guessing at

different solutions. Rather, think deeper. How is the worst case defined? How does the
number of drops of each egg factor into that?

CrackingTheCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

669

ll| Hints for Concepts and Algorithms
#295.

8.9

We can ensure that this string is valid by counting the number of left and right parens.
It is always valid to add a left paren, up until the total number of pairs of parens. We can

add aright paren as long as count(left parens)

#296.

6.4

<= count(right parens).

You can think about this either as the probability(3 ants walking clockwise) + probability(3 ants walking counter-clockwise). Or, you can think about it as: The first ant picks
a direction. What's the probability of the other ants picking the same direction?

#297.

5.2

Think about what happens for values that can't be represented accurately in binary.

#298.

10.3.

Can you modify binary search for this purpose?

#299.

11.1

What will happen to the unsigned int?

#300.

8.11

Try breaking it down into subproblems. If you were making change, what is the first
choice you would make?

#301.

10.10

The problem with using an array is that it will be slow to insert a number. What other
data structures could we use?

#302.

5.5

If(n & (n-1)) == Q,then this meansthatn andn - 1neverhave a1 inthe same
spot. Why would that happen?

#303.

10.9

Another way to think about this is that if you drew a rectangle arounda cell extending
to the bottom, right coordinate of the matrix, the cell would be bigger than all the items
in this square.

#304.

9.2

Is there any way to search from both the source and destination? For what reason or in
what case mightthis be faster?

#305.

8.14

If your code looks really lengthy, with a lot of if’s (for each possible operator, “target”
boolean result, and left/right side), think about the relationship between the different
parts. Try to simplify your code. It should not need a ton of complicated if-statements. For example, consider expressions of the form <LEFT>OR<RIGHT> versus
<LEFT>AND<RIGHT>. Both may need to know the number of ways that the <LEFT>
evaluates to true. See what code you can reuse.

#306.

6.9

The number 3 has an even number of factors (1 and 3). The number 12 has an even
number of factors (1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 12). What numbers do not? What does this tell you about
the doors?

#307.

7.12

#308.

8.12

#309.

8.7

Think carefully about what information the linked list node needs to contain.
| Weknow that each row must have a queen. Can you try all possibilities?
Approach 2: To generate a permutation of abcd, you need to pick an initial character. It

can be a, b, c, or d. You can then permute the remaining characters. How can you use

this approach to generate all permutations of the full string?
#310.

10.3

What is the runtime of your algorithm? What will happen if the array has duplicates?

#311.

9.5

How would you scale this to a larger system?

#312.

5.4

Get Next: Can you flip a 0 to a 1 to create the next biggest number?

#313.

11.4.

Think about what load testing is designed to test. What are the factors in the load of a

webpage? What criteria would be used to judge if a webpage performs satisfactorily
under heavy load?

670

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Il | Hints for Concepts and Algorithms
#314.

5.3

Each sequence can be lengthened by merging it with an adjacent sequence (if any) or

just flipping the immediate neighboring zero. You just need to find the best choice.
#315.

10.8

Consider implementing your own bit vector class. it's a good exercise and an important

part of this problem.
#316.

10.11

#317.

10.9

You should be able to design an O(n) algorithm.
A cell will be larger than all the items below it and to the right. It will be smaller than all

cells above it and to the left. If we wanted to eliminate the most elements first, which
element should we compare the value x to?
#318.

8.6

If you're having trouble with recursion, then try trusting the recursive process more.

Once you've figured out how to move the top two disks from tower 0 to tower 2, trust
that you have this working. When you need to move three disks, trust that you Can move
two disks from one tower to another. Now, two disks have been moved. What do you do
about the third?
#319.

6.1

Imagine there were just three bottles and one had heavier pills. Suppose you put

different numbers of pills from each bottle on the scale (for example, bottle 1 has 5 pills,
bottle 2 has 2 pills, and bottle 3 has 9 pills). What would the scale show?
#320.

10.4

Think about how binary search works. What will be the issue with just implementing
binary search?

#321.

9.2

Discuss how you might implement these algorithms and this system in the real world.

What sort of optimizations might you make?
#322.

8.13

Once we pick the box on the bottom, we need to pick the second box. Then the third
box.

#323.

Ly

The probability of making two out of three shots is probability(make shot 1, make shot
2, miss shot 3) + probability(make shot 1, miss shot 2, make shot 3) + probability(miss
shot 1, make shot 2, make shot 3) + probability(make shot 1, make shot 2, make shot 3).

#324.

8.11

if you were making change, the first choice you might make is how many quarters you
need to use.
Think about issues both within the program and outside of the program (the rest of the

#325.

system).
#326.

9.4

Estimate how much space is needed for this.

#327.

8.14

Look at your recursion. Do you have repeated calls anywhere? Can you memoize it?

#328.

5.7

The value 1010 in binary is 10 in decimal or OxA in hex. What will a sequence of 101010...
be in hex? That is, how do you represent an alternating sequence of 1s and Os with 1s in

the odd places? How do you do this for the reverse (1s in the even spots)?
#329.
#330.

Consider both extreme cases and more general cases.
10.9

If we compare x to the center element in the matrix, we can eliminate roughly one

quarter of the elements in the matrix.
#331.

8.2

For the robot to reach the last cell, it must find a path to the second-to-last cells. For it to
find a path to the second-to-last cells, it must find a path to the third-to-last cells.

#332.

10.1

Try moving from the end ofthe array to the beginning.

CrackinglheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

671

Il | Hints for Concepts and Algorithms
#333.

6.8

if we drop Egg 1 at fixed intervals (e.g., every 10 floors), then the worst case is the worst

case for Egg 1 + the worst case for Egg 2. The problem with our earlier solutions is that as
Egg 1 does more work, Egg 2 doesn't do any less work. Ideally, we'd like to balance this
a bit. As Egg 1 does more work (has survived more drops), Egg 2 should have less work
to do. What might this mean?

#334.

9.3

Think about how infinite loops might occur.

#335.

8.7

Approach 2: To generate all permutations of abcd, pick each character (a, b, ¢, or d)
as a Starting character. Permute the remaining characters and prepend the starting
character. How do you permute the remaining characters? With a recursive process that
follows the same logic.

#336.

5.6

How would you figure out how many bits are different between two numbers?

#337.

10.4

Binary search requires comparing an element to the midpoint. Getting the midpoint
requires knowing the length. We don't know the length. Can we find it?

#338.

8.4

Subsets that contain c willbe subsets {a, b, c}butnot{a, b}.Can you build these
subsets from the subsets of {a,

#339.

54

b}?

Get Next: Flipping a 0 to a 1 will create a bigger number. The farther right the index is
the smaller the bigger number is. If we have a number like 1001, we want to flip the
rightmost 0 (to create 1011). But if we have a number like 1010, we should not flip the
rightmost 1.

#340.

8.3

Given a specific index and value, can you identify if the magic index would be before or
after it?

#341.

6.6

Now suppose there were two blue-eyed people. What would they see? What would they

know? When would they leave? Remember your answer from the prior hint. Assume
they know the answer to the earlier hint.

#342.

10.2

#343.

8.11

Do you even need to truly “sort”? Or is just reorganizing the list sufficient?
Once you've decided to use two quarters to make change for 98 cents, you now need

to figure out how many ways to make change for 48 cents using nickels, dimes, and
pennies.

#344.

75

Think about all the different functionality a system to read books online would have
to support. You don't have to do everything, but you should think about making your
assumptions explicit.

#345.

11.4

#346.

5S:

= Could you build your own? What might that look like?
What is the relationship between how n looks and hown

-

1 looks? Walk through a

binary subtraction.

#347.

9.4

Will you need multiple passes? Multiple machines?

#348.

10.4.

~=Wecan find the length by using an exponential backoff. First check index 2, then 4, then

8, then 16, and so on. What will be the runtime of this algorithm?

#349.

11.6

What can we automate?

#350.

8.12

Each row must have a queen. Start with the last row. There are eight different columns

on which you can put a queen. Can you try each ofthese?

672

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

ll | Hints for Concepts and Algorithms
#351.

7.10

Should number cells, blank cells, and bomb cells be separate classes?

#352.

3.3

Try to do it in linear time, a single pass, and O(1) space.

#353.

9.3

How would you detect the same page? What does this mean?

#354.

8.4

You can build the remaining subsets by adding ¢ to all the subsets of {a,

#355.

5.7

Try masks @xaaaaaaaa and @x55555555 to select the even and odd bits. Then try

b}.

shifting the even and odd bits around to create the right number.
#356.

8.7

Approach 2: You can implement this approach by having the recursive function pass
back the list of the strings, and then you prepend the starting character to it. Or, you can

push down a prefix to the recursive calls.
#357.

6.8

Try dropping Egg 1 at bigger intervals at the beginning and then at smaller and smaller

intervals. The idea is to keep the sum of Egg 1 and Egg 2's drops as constant as possible.
For each additional drop that Egg 1 takes, Egg 2 takes one fewer drop. What is the right
interval?
#358.

5.4

Get Next: We should flip the rightmost non-trailing 0. The number 1010 would become

1110. Once we’ve done that, we need to flip a 1 to a O to make the number as small
as possible, but bigger than the original number (1010). What do we do? How can we
shrink the number?
#359.

8.1

Try memoization as a way to optimize an inefficient recursive program.

#360.

8.2

Simplify this problema bit by first figuring out if there’s a path. Then, modify your algorithm to track the path.

#361.

7.10

Look at the parameters for printf.

#362.
#363.

What is the algorithm to place the bombs around the board?

7.2

Before coding, make a list of the objects you need and walk through the common algorithms. Picture the code. Do you have everything you need?

#364.

8.10

#365.

os

Think about this as a graph.
How do you define if two pages are the same? Is it the URLs? Is it the content? Both of

these can be flawed. Why?
#366.

5.8

#367.

6.3

First try the naive approach. Can you set a particular “pixel”?
Picture a domino laying down on the board. How many black squares does it cover?
How many white squares?

#368.

8.13

Once you have a basic recursive algorithm implemented, think about if you can optimize it. Are there any repeated subproblems?

#369.

5.6

Think about what an XOR indicates. If you do a XOR_ b, where does the result have 1s?
Where does it have Os?

#370.

6.6

Build up from this. What if there were three blue-eyed people? What if there were four
blue-eyed people?

#371.

8.12

Break this down into smaller subproblems. The queen at row 8 must be at column 1, 2,
3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8. Can you print all ways of placing eight queens where a queen is at row
8 and column 3? You then need to check all the ways of placing a queen on row 7.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

673

ll | Hints for Concepts and Algorithms
#372.

5.5

When you do a binary subtraction, you flip the rightmost Os to a 1, stopping when you
get toa 1 (which is also flipped). Everything (all the 1s and Os) on the left will stay put.

#373.

8.4

You can also do this by mapping each subset to a binary number. The ith bit could
represent a “boolean” flag for whether an element is in the set.

#374.

6.8

Let X be the first drop of Egg 1. This means that Egg 2 woulddoX

-

1drops if Egg 1

broke. We want to try to keep the sum of Egg 1 and Egg 2's drops as constant as possible. If
Egg 1 breaks on the second drop, then we want Egg2 todoX -

2 drops. If Egg 1 breaks

on the third drop, then we want Egg 2todoX - 3 drops. This keeps the sum of Egg 1 and
Egg 2 fairly constant. What is X?

#375.

5.4

Get Next: We can shrink the number by moving all the 1s to the right of the flipped bit
as far right as possible (removing a 1 in the process).

#376.

10.10

Would it work well to use a binary search tree?

#377.

7.10

Toplace the bombs randomly on the board: Think about the algorithm to shuffle a deck
of cards. Can you apply a similar technique?

#378.

8.13

Alternatively, we can think about the repeated choices as: Does the first box go on the
stack? Does the second box go on the stack? And so on.

#379.

6.5

If you fill the 5-quart jug and then use it to fill the 3-quart jug, you'll have two quarts
left in the 5-quart jug. You can either keep those two quarts where they are, or you can
dump the contents of the smaller jug and pour the two quarts in there.

#380.

8.11

Analyze your algorithm. Is there any repeated work? Can you optimize this?

#381.

5.8

When you're drawing a long line, you'll have entire bytes that will become a sequence of
1s. Can you set this all at once?

#382.

8.10

| Youcan implement this using depth-first search (or breadth-first search). Each adjacent
pixel of the “right” color is a connected edge.

#383.

5.5

Picture n and n-1.To subtract 1 from n, you flipped the rightmost 1 to a 0 and all the Os
onitsrightto 1s.lfn & n-1 == @,thenthere are no 1s

to the left of the first

1.What

does that mean about n?

#384.

5.8

What about the start and end of the line? Do you need to set those pixels individually,
or can you set them all at once?

#385.

9.1

Think about this as a real-world application. What are the different factors you would

need to consider?

#386.

7.10

How do you count the number of bombs neighboring a cell? Will you iterate through all
cells?

#387.

6.1

You should be able to have an equation that tells you the heavy bottle based on the
weight.

#388.

8.2

Think again about the efficiency of your algorithm. Can you optimize it?

#389.

79

The rotate() method should be able to run in 0(1) time.

#390.

5.4

Get Previous: Once you've solved Get Next, try to invert the logic for Get Previous.

#391.

5.8

Does your code handle the case when x1 and x2 are in the same byte?

#392.

10.10

Consider a binary search tree where each node stores some additional data.

674

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Il | Hints for Concepts and Algorithms
#393.

11.6

Have you thought about security and reliability?

#394,

8.11

Try using memoization.

#395.

6.8

| got 14 drops in the worst case. What did you get?

#396.

9.1

There’s no one right answer here. Discuss several different technical implementations.

#397.

6.3

How many black squares are there on the board? How many white squares?

#398.

5.5

We know that n must have only one 1 ifn & (n-1) == @.What sorts of numbers
have
only one 1?

#399.

7.10

When you click on a blank cell, what is the algorithm to expand the neighboring cells?

#400.

6.5

Once you've developed a way to solve this problem, think about it more broadly. If you
are given a jug of size X and another jug of size Y, can you always use it to measure Z?

#401.

Is it possible to test everything? How will you prioritize testing?

CrackingTheCodingIinterview.com | 6th Edition

675

Hints for Knowledge-Based Questions

#402.

12.9

Focus on the concept firsts, then worry about the exact implementation. How should
SmartPointer look?

#403.

15.2

A context switch is the time spent switching between two processes. This happens
when you bring one process into execution and swap out the existing process.

#404.

13.1

Think about who can access private methods.

#405.

15.1

How do these differ in terms of memory?

#406.

12.11.

Recall that a two dimensional array is essentially an array ofarrays.

#407.

15.2

Ideally, we would like to record the timestamp when one process “stops” and the timestamp when another process “starts.” But how do we know when this swapping will
occur?

#408.

14.1

A GROUP BY clause might be useful.

#409.

13.2

When doesa

#410.

12.2

Can we do this in place?

#411.

14.2

It might be helpful to break the approach into two pieces. The first piece is to get each

finally block get executed? Are there any cases where it won't get executed?

building ID and the number of open requests. Then, we can get the building names.
#412.

13.3

Consider that some of these might have different meanings depending on where they

are applied.

#413.

12.10

Typically, malloc will just give us an arbitrary block of memory. If we can’t override this
behavior, can we work with it to do what we need?

#414,

15.7

First implement the single-threaded FizzBuzz problem.

#415.

15.2

Try setting up two processes and have them pass a small amount of data back and forth.

This will encourage the system to stop one process and bring the other one in.

#416.

13.4

The purpose of these might be somewhat similar, but how does the implementation
differ?

#417.

15.5

| Howcan weensure that First() has terminated before calling second(
)?

#418.

12.11

One approach is to callmalloc for each array. How would we free the memory here?

#419,

15.3

A deadlock can happen when there's a “cycle” in the order of who is waiting for whom.

How can we break or prevent this cycle?

676

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

lll | Hints for Knowledge-Based Questions
#420.

13.5

Think about the underlying data structure.

#421.

12%

Think about why we use virtual methods.

#422.

15.4

If every thread had to declare upfront what processes it might need, could we detect

possible deadlocks in advance?
#423.

12.3

What is the underlying data structure behind each? What are the implications ofthis?

#424.

lS.

HashMap uses an array of linked lists. TpeeMap uses a red-black tree. LinkedHashMap
uses doubly-linked buckets. What is the implication of this?

#425.

13.4

Consider the usage of primitive types. How else might they differ in terms of how you
can use the types?

#426.

12.11

Can we allocate this instead as a contiguous block of memory?

#427.

12.8

This data structure can be pictured as a binary tree, but it’s not necessarily. What if
there's a loop in the structure?

#428.

14.7

You probably needa list of students, their courses, and another table building a relationship between students and courses. Note that this is a many-to-many relationship.

#429.

15.6

The keyword synchronized ensures that two threads cannot execute synchronized
methods on the same instance at the same time.

#430.

13.5

Consider how they might differ in terms of the order of iteration through the keys. Why
might you want one option instead of the others?

#431.

14,3

#432.

12.10

First try to get a list of the IDs (just the IDs) of all the relevant apartments.
Imagine we have a sequential set of integers (3, 4, 5, ...). How big does this set need to be
to ensure that one of the numbers is divisible by 16?

#433.

15.5

Why would using boolean flags to do this be a bad idea?

#434.

15.4

Think about the order of requests as a graph. What does a deadlock look like within this
graph?

#435.

13.6

Object reflection allows you to get information about methods and fields in an object.
Why might this be useful?

#436.

14.6

Be particularly careful about which relationships are one-to-one vs. one-to-many vs.
many-to-many.

#437.

15.3

One idea is to just not let a philosopher hold onto a chopstick if he can't get the other
one.

#438.

12.9

#439.

15.7

Think about tracking the number of references,
What will this tell us?

Dont try to do anything fancy on the single-threaded problem. Just get something that
is simple and easily readable.

#440.

12.10

#441.

15.2

How will we free the memory?
It’s okay if your solution isn’t totally perfect. That might not be possible. Discuss the
tradeoffs of your approach.

#442.

14.7

Think carefully about how you handle ties when selecting the top

10%.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

677

lll | Hints for Knowledge-Based Questions
#443.

13.8

A naive approachisto pick arandom subset size z and then iterate through the elements,

putting it in the set with probability z/1ist_size. Why would this not work?
#444,

14.5

Denormalization means adding redundant data to a table. It’s typically used in very

large systems. Why might this be useful?

#445,

12.5

A shallow copy copies just the initial data structure. A deep copy does this, and also
copies any underlying data. Given this, why might you use one versus the other?

#446.

15.5

Would semaphores be useful here?

#447.

15.7

Outline the structure for the threads without worrying about synchronizing anything.

#448.

13.7

Consider how you'd implement this first without lambda expressions.

#449.

12.1

If we already had the number of lines in the file, how would we do this?

#450.

13.8

Pick the list of all the subsets of an n-element set. For any given item x, half of the
subsets contain x and half do not.

#451.

14.4

Describe INNER JOINs and OUTER JOIJNs. OUTER JOINs can have multiple types: left,
right, and full.

#452.

12.2

Be careful about the nul] character.

#453.

12.9

What are all the different methods/operators we might want to override?

#454,

135

What would the runtime of the common operations be?

#455.

14.5

Think about the cost of joins on a large system.

#456.

12.6

The keyword volatile signals that a variable might be changed from outside of the
program, such as by another process. Why might this be necessary?

#457.

13.8

Do not pick the length of the subset in advance. You don’t need to. Instead, think about
this as picking whether each element will be put into the set.

#458.

15.7

Once you get the structure of each thread done, think about what you need to synchronize.

#459.

12.1

Suppose we didn't have the number of lines in the file. Is there a way we could do this
without first counting the number of lines?

#460.

12.7

What would happen if the destructor were not virtual?

#461.

13.7

Break this up into two parts: filtering the countries and then getting a sum.

#462.

12.8

Consider using a hash table.

#463.

12.4

You should discuss vtables here.

#464.

13.7.

Can you do this without a filter operation?

678

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

IV
Hints for Additional Review Problems

#465.

16.3

Think about what you're going to design for.

#466.

16.12

Consider a recursive or tree-like approach.

#467.

17.1

Walk through binary addition by hand (slowly!) and try to really understand what is
happening.

#468.

16.13

Draw a square and a bunch of lines that cut it in half. Where are those lines located?

#469.

17.24

Start with a brute force solution.

#470.

17.14

There are actually several approaches. Brainstorm these. It’s okay to start off with a naive
approach.

#471.

16.20

Consider recursion.

#472.

16.3

Will all lines intercept? What determines if two lines intercept?

#473.

16.7

Letk be 1ifa

>

band 0 otherwise. If you were given k, could you return the max

(without a comparison or if-else logic)?
#474.

16.22

The tricky bit is handling an infinite grid. What are your options?

#475.

17.15

Try simplifying this problem: What if you just needed to know the longest word made
up of two other words in the list?

#476.

16.10

#477.

17.25

Solution 1: Can you count the number of people alive in each year?
Start by grouping the dictionary by the word lengths, since you know each column has
to be the same length and each row has to be the same length.

#478.

17.7

Discuss the naive approach: merging names together when they are synonyms. How
would you identify transitive relationships?
——p

#479,

16.13

=

=

A

==

B,A

==

C,andC

==

D impliesA

C.

Any straight line that cuts a square in half goes through the center of the square. How
then can you find a line that cuts two squares in half?

#480.

17.17

#481.

16.22

Start with a brute force solution. What is the runtime?
Option #1: Do you actually need an infinite grid? Read the problem again. Do you know
the max size of the grid?

#482.

16.16

Would it help to know the longest sorted sequences at the beginning and end?

#483.

17.2

Try approaching this problem recursively.

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

679

IV | Hints for Additional Review Problems
#484.

17.26

Solution 1: Start with just a simple algorithm comparing all documents
to all other documents. How would you compute the similarity of two documents as fast as possible?

#485.

17.5

it doesn't really matter which letter or number it is. You can simplify this problem to just
having an array of As and Bs. You would then be looking for the longest subarray with
an equal number of As and Bs.

#486.

17.11

Consider first the algorithm for finding the closest distance if you will run the algorithm

only once. You should be able to do this in O(N) time, where N is the number of words
in the document.

#487.

16.20

#488.

17.9

Canyou recursively try all possibilities?

Be clear about what this problem is asking for. It’s asking for the kth smallest number in
the form 37 * 5° * 7°,

#489.

16.2

Think about what the best conceivable runtime is for this problem. !f your solution
matches the best conceivable runtime, then you probably can't do any better.

#490.

16.10

Solution 1: Try using a hash table, or an array that maps from a birth year to how many
people are alive in that year.

#491.

16.14

Sometimes, a brute force is a pretty good solution. Can you try all possible lines?

#492.

16.1

Try picturing the two numbers, a and b, on a number line.

#493.

17.7

The core part of the problem is to group names into the various spellings. From there,

figuring out the frequencies is relatively easy.

#494.

17.3

If you haven't already, solve 17.2 on page 186.

#495.

17.16

There are recursive and iterative solutions to this problem, but it’s probably easier to
start with the recursive solution.

#496.

17.13

#497.

16.3

Try arecursive approach.

Infinite lines will almost always intersect—unless they’re parallel. Parallel lines might
still “intercept’—if they're the same lines. What does this mean for line segments?

#498.

17.26

Solution 1: To compute the similarity of two documents, try reorganizing the data in

some way. Sorting? Using another data structure?
#499,

17.15

If we wanted to know just the longest word made up of other words in the list, then we

could iterate over all words, from longest
to shortest, checking if each could be made up
of other words.
To check this, we split the string in all possible locations.

#500.

17.25

Can you find a word rectangle of a specific length and width? What if you just tried all
options?

#501.

17.11

Adapt your algorithm for one execution of the algorithm for repeated executions. What

is the slow part? Can you optimize it?

#502.

16.8

Try thinking about the number in terms of chunks of three digits.

#503.

17.19

Start with the first part: Finding the missing number if only one number is missing.

680

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

IV | Hints for Additional Review Problems

#504.

17.16

Recursive solution: You have two choices at each appointment (take the appointment
or reject the appointment). As a brute force approach, you can recurse through all possibilities. Note, though, that if you take request 1, your recursive algorithm should skip
request i + 1.

#505.

16.23

Be very careful that your solution actually returns each value from 0 through 6 with
equal probability.

#506.

17.22

Start with a brute force, recursive solution. Just create all words that are one edit away,
check if they are in the dictionary, and then attempt that path.

#507.

16.10

Solution 2: What if you sorted the years? What would you sort by?

#508.

17.9

What does a brute force solution to get the kth smallest value for 32

*

5° * 7° look

like?
#509.

17.12

#510.

17.26

Try a recursive approach.

Solution 1: You should be able to get an0( A+B) algorithm to compute the similarity of
two documents.

#511.

17.24

The brute force solution requires us to continuously compute the sums of each matrix.
Can we optimize this?

#512.

17.7

One thing to try is maintaining a mapping of each name to its“true” spelling. You would
also need to map froma true spelling to all the synonyms. Sometimes, you might need
to merge two different groups of names. Play around with this algorithm to see if you
can get it to work. Then see if you can simplify/optimize it.

#513.

16.7

If k were 1 whena

> band 0 otherwise, then you could return a*k + b¥(not k).

But how do you create k?
#514.

16.10

Solution 2: Do you actually need to match the birth years and death years? Does it
matter when a specific person died, or do you just need a list of the years of deaths?

#515.

75

#516.

17.16

Start with a brute force solution.
Recursive solution: You can optimize this approach through memoization. What is the
runtime of this approach?

#517.

16.3

How can we find the intersection between two lines? If two line segments intercept,
then this must be at the same point as their “infinite” extensions. Is this intersection
point within both lines?

#518.

17.26

Solution 1: What is the relationship between the intersection and the union? Can you
compute one from the other?

#519.

17.20

Recall that the median means the number for which half the numbers are larger and half
the numbers are smailer.

#520.

16.14

You cant truly try all possible lines in the world—that’s infinite. But you know that a
“best” line must intersect at least two points. Can you connect each pair of points? Can

you check if each line is indeed the best line?
#521.

16.26

Can we just process the expression from left to right? Why might this fail?

#522.

17.10

Start with a brute force solution. Can you just check each value to see if it’s the majority

element?

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

681

IV| Hints for Additional Review Problems
#523.

16.10

Solution 2: Observe that people are “fungible”It doesn’t matter who was born and when
they died. All you need is a list of birth years and death years. This might make the question of how you sort the list of people easier.

#524.

16.25

#525.

17.24

First scope the problem. What are the features you would want?

Can you do any sort of precomputation to make computing the sum of a submatrix
O(1)?

#526.

17.16

Recursive solution: The runtime of your memoization approach should be O(N), with
O(N) space.

#527.

16.3

Think carefully about how to handle the case of line segments that have the same slope
and y-intercept.

#528.

16.13

To cut two squares in half, a line must go through the middle of both squares.

#529.

16.14

You should be able to get to an O(.N2) solution.

#530.

17.14.

Consider thinking about reorganizing the data in some way or using additional data
structures.

#531.

16.17.

Picture the array as alternating sequences of positive and negative numbers. Observe
that we would never include just part of a positive sequence or part of a negative
sequence.

#532.

16.10

Solution 2: Try creating a sorted list of births and a sorted list of deaths. Can you iterate
through both, tracking the number of people alive at any one time?

#533.

16.22

#534,

17.26

Option #2: Think about how an ArrayList works. Can you use an ArrayList for this?
Solution 1:
To understand the relationship between the union and the intersection of
two sets, consider a Venn diagram (a diagram where one circle overlaps another circle).

#535.

17.22.

Once you have a brute force solution, try to find a faster way of getting all valid words
that are one edit away. You don’t want to create all strings that are one edit away when

the vast majority of them are not valid dictionary words.
#536.

16.2

Can you use a hash table to optimize the repeated case?

#537.

17.7

An easier way of taking the above approach is to have each name map toa list of alter-

nate spellings. What should happen when a name in one group is set equal to a name in
another group?

#538.

17.11

You could build a lookup table that maps from a word toa list of the locations where

each word appears. How then could you find the closest two locations?

#539.

17.24

What if you precomputed the sum of the submatrix starting at the top left corner and
continuing to each cell? How long would it take you to compute this? If you did this,

could you then get the sum of an arbitrary submatrix inO(1) time?
#540.

16.22

Option #2: It’s not impossible to use an ArrayList, but it would be tedious. Perhaps it

would be easier to build your own, but specialized for matrices.
#541,

16.10

Solution 3: Each birth adds one person and each death removes a person. Try writing an

example of a list of people (with birth and death years) and then re-formatting this into
a list of each year and a +1 for a birth and a-1 for a death.

682

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

IV | Hints for Additional Review Problems
#542.

17.16

Iterative solution: Take the recursive solution and investigate it more. Can you implement a similar strategy iteratively?

#543.

17.15

Extend the earlier idea to multiple words. Can we just break each word up in all possible
ways?

#544,

17.1

You can think about binary addition as iterating through the number, bit by bit, adding
two bits, and then carrying over the one if necessary. You could also think about it as
grouping the operations. What if you first added each of the bits (without carrying any

overflow)? After that, you can handle the overflow.
#545.

16.21

Do some math here or play around with some examples. What does this pair need to
look like? What can you say about their values?

#546.

17.20

Note that you have to store all the elements you've seen. Even the smallest of the
first 100 elements could become the median. You can't just toss very low or very high

elements.
#547.

17.26

Solution 2: It’s tempting to try to think of minor optimizations—for example, keeping
track of the min and max elements in each array. You could then figure out quickly, in
specific cases, if two arrays don't overlap.
The problem with that (and other optimizations along these lines) is that you still need to compare all documents to all other documents. It doesn't leverage the fact that the similarity is sparse. Given that we have a Jot
of documents, we really need to not compare all documents to all other documents

(even if that comparison is very fast). All such solutions will be O(D*), where D is the
number of documents. We shouldn't compare all documents to all other documents.
#548.

16.24

Start with a brute force solution. What is the runtime? What is the best conceivable
runtime for this problem?

#549.

16.10

Solution 3: What if you created an array of years and how the population changed in
each year? Could you then find the year with the highest population?

#550.

17.9

In looking for the kth smallest value of 32 * 5° * 7°, we know that a, b, and c will be
less than or equal to k. Can you generate all such numbers?

#551.

16.17

Observe that if you have a sequence of values which have a negative sum, those will
never start or end a sequence. (They could be present in a sequence if they connected
two other sequences.)

#552.

17.14

Can you sort the numbers?

#553.

16.16

We can think about the array as divided into three subarrays: LEFT, MIDDLE, RIGHT.
LEFT and RIGHT are both sorted. The MIDDLE elements are in an arbitrary order. We

need to expand MIDDLE until we could sort those elements and then have the entire
array sorted.
#554.

17.16

Iterative solution: It’s probably easiest to start with the end of the array and work back
wards.

#555.

17.26

Solution 2: If we can’t compare all documents to all other documents, then we need to
dive down and start looking at things at the element level. Consider a naive solution
and see if you can extend that to multiple documents.

CrackingTheCoding|nterview.com | 6th Edition

683

IV | Hints for Additional Review Problems
#556.

17.22

To quickly get the valid words that are one edit away, try to group the words in the
dictionary in a useful way. Observe that all words in the form b_11 (suchas bill,ball,

bell, and bul
1) will be one edit away. However, those aren't the only words that are
one edit away from bill.
#557.

16.21

When you move a value a from array A to array B, then A’s sum decreases by a and B’s
sum increases by a. What happens when you swap two values? What would be needed
to swap two values and get the same sum?

#558.

17.11

If you had a list of the occurrences of each word, then you are really looking for a pair

of values within two arrays (one value for each array) with the smallest difference. This
could be a fairly similar algorithm to your initial algorithm.
#559.

16.22

Option #2: One approach is to just double the size of the array when the ant wanders
to an edge. How will you handle the ant wandering into negative coordinates, though?
Arrays can't have negative indices.

#560.

16.13

Given a line (slope and y-intercept), can you find where it intersects another line?

#561.

17.26

Solution 2: One way to think about this is that we need to be able to very quickly pull

a list of all documents with some similarity to a specific document. (Again, we should
not do this by saying “look at all documents and quickly eliminate the dissimilar docu-

ments’ That will be at least O(D*).)
#562.

17.16

iterative solution: Observe that you would never skip three appointments in a row. Why
would you? You would always be able to take the middle booking.

#563.

16.14

Have you tried using a hash table?

#564.

16.21

If you swap two values, a and b, then the sum ofA becomes sumA
sum of

#565.

17.24

Bbecomes sumB

-

-

a

+

bandthe

b + a.These sums need to be equal.

If you can precompute the sum from the top left corner
to each cell, you can use this to

compute the sum of an arbitrary submatrix in O( 1) time. Picture a particular submatrix.
The full, precomputed sum will include this submatrix, an array immediately above it
(C), and array to the left (B), and an area to the top and left (A). How can you compute
the sum ofjust D?
x1

x2

yi

y2

#566.

17.10

Consider the brute force solution. We pick an element and then validate if it’s the
majority element by counting the number of matching and non-matching elements.

Suppose, for the first element, the first few checks reveal seven non-matching elements
and three matching elements. Is it necessary to keep checking this element?
#567.

16.17

Start from the beginning of the array. As that subsequence gets larger, it stays as the
best subsequence. Once it becomes negative, though, it’s useless.

684

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

IV | Hints for Additional Review Problems
#568.

17.16

Iterative solution: If you take appointment i, you will never take appointment i

+

1,

but you will always take appointment i + 2ori + 3.
#569.

17.26

Solution 2: Building off the earlier hint, we can ask what defines the list of documents

with some similarity to a document like {13, 16, 21, 3}. What attributes does that list
have? How would we gather all documents like that?
#570.

16.22

Option #2: Observe that nothing in the problem stipulates that the label for the coordinates must remain the same. Can you move the ant and all cells into positive coordinates? In other words, what would happen if, whenever you needed to grow the array
in a negative direction, you relabeled all the indices such that they were still positive?

#571.

16.21

You are looking for values a and b where sumA

-

a + b =

SumB

-

b + a.Dothe

math to work out what this means fOr a and b’s values.
#572.

16.9

Approach these one by one, starting with subtraction. Once you’ve completed one

function, you can use it to implement the others.
#573.

17.6

Start with a brute force solution.

#574,

16.23

Start with a brute force solution. How many times does it call randS() in the worst
case?

#575.

17.20

Another way to think about this is: Can you maintain the bottom half of elements and
the top half of elements?

#576.

16.10

Solution 3: Be careful with the little details in this problem. Does your algorithm/code
handle a person who dies in the same year that they are born? This person should be
counted as one person in the population count.

#577.

17.26

Solution 2: The list of documents similar to {13, 16, 21, 3} includes all documents with a
13, 16, 21, and 3. How can we efficiently find this list? Remember that we'll be doing this
for many documents, so some precomputing can make sense.

#578.

17.16

Iterative solution: Use an example and work backwards. You can easily find the optimal
solution for the subarrays {r}, {7,45

(id. {0,52

those to quickly find the optimal solution for{r,,,
#579.

17.2

+++»
...,

©}. How would you use
rr}?

Suppose you had a method shuffle that worked on decks upton

-

1 elements.

Could you use this method to implement a new shuffle method that works on decks
up to n elements?
#580.

17.22

Create a mapping from a wildcard form (like b_11) to all words in that form. Then, when
you want to find all words that are one edit away from bill, you can look up _ill1,
b 11,bi_1,andbil_ inthe mapping.

#581.

17.24

The sum of just D will be sum(A&B&C&D)

#582.

17.17

Can you use
a trie?

#583.

16.21

If we do the math, we are looking for a pair of values such thata
sumB)

/

-

sum(A&B)

-

sum(A&C)

-

b

+

sum(A).

=

(SumA

-

2.The problem then reduces to looking for a pair of values with a particular

difference.
#584.

17.26

Solution 2: Try building a hash table from each word to the documents that contain this
word. This will allow us to easily find all documents with some similarity to {13, 16, 21, 3}.

#585.

16.5

How does a zero get into the result of n! ? What does it mean?

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com| 6th Edition

685

IV | Hints for Additional Review Problems
#586.

ile
7,

If each name maps toa list of its alternate spellings, you might have to update a lot of

lists when you set X and Y as synonyms. If X is a synonym of {A,

B,

synonym of {D,

F}toA’s synonym

E,

F}then you would need to add {Y,

D,

E,

list, B‘s synonym list, C's synonym list, and X’s synonym list. Ditto for {Y,

C}, and Yisa
D,

E,

Fh}.

Can we make this faster?
#587.

17.16

iterative solution: If you take an appointment, you can’t take the next appointment, but

you can take anything after that. Therefore, optimal(r,,
optimal(r,,,

...,

©),

optimal(r,,,

...,

wee,

PL) = max( r, +

m,)).You can solve this itera-

tively by working backwards.
#588.

16.8

Have you considered negative numbers? Does your solution work for values like
100,030,000?

#589.

17.15

When you get recursive algorithms that are very inefficient, try looking for repeated
subproblems.

#590.

17.19

Part 1: If you have to find the missing number in O(1) space and O(N) time, then you
can do a only constant number of passes through the array and can store only a few
variables.

#591.

17.9

Look at the list of all values for 3? * 5° * 7°, Observe that each value in the list will be
3*(some previous value), 5*(some previous value), or 7*(some previous value).

#592.

16.21

A brute force solution is to just look through all pairs of values to find one with the
right difference. This will probably look like an outer loop through A with an inner loop
through B. For each value, compute the difference and compare

it to what we're looking

for. Can we be more specific here, though? Given a value in A and a target difference, do
we know the exact value of the element within B we're looking for?
#593.

17.14

#594,

16.17

What about using a heap or tree of some sort?
If we tracked the running sum, we should reset it as soon as the subsequence becomes
negative. We would never add a negative sequence to the beginning or end of another
subsequence.

#595.

17.24

With precomputation, you should be able to get a runtime of O(N*). Can you make this
even faster?

#596.

17.3

Try this recursively. Suppose you had an algorithm to get a subset of size m from n- 1
elements. Could you develop an algorithm to get a subset of size m from n elements?

#597.

16.24

Can we make this faster with a hash table?

#598.

17.22

Your previous algorithm probably resembles a depth-first search. Can you make this
faster?

#599.

16.22

Option #3: Another thing to think about is whether you even need a grid to implement
this. What information do you actually need in the problem?

#600.

16.9

Subtraction: Would a negate function (which converts a positive integer to negative)

help? Can you implement this using the add operator?
#601.

17.1

Focus on just one of the steps above. if you “forgot” to carry the ones, what would the
add operation look like?

686

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

IV | Hints for Additional Review Problems
#602.

16.21

What the brute force really does is look for a value within B which equalsa - target.
How can you more quickly find this element? What approaches help us quickly find out
if an element exists within an array?

#603.

17.26

Solution 2: Once you have a way of easily finding the documents similar to a particular
document, you can go through and just compute the similarity to those documents

using a simple algorithm. Can you make this faster? Specifically, can you compute the
similarity directly from the hash table?
#604.

17.10

The majority element will not necessarily look like the majority element at first. It is
possible, for example, to have the majority element appear in the first element of the
array and then not appear again for the next eight elements. However, in those cases,

the majority element will appear later in the array (in fact, many times later on in the
array). It’s not necessarily critical to continue checking a specific instance of an element
for majority status once it’s already looking “unlikely.”
#605.

17.7

Instead, X, A, B, and C should map to the same instance of theset {X, A,
E, and F should map to the same instance of {Y,

D,

E,

B, C}.Y,D,

F}.When we set
X and Y as

synonyms, we can then just copy one of the sets into the other (e.g., add {Y,

F}to{X, A,
#606.

16.21

B,

D,

E,

C}). How else do we change the hash table?

We can usea hash table here. We can also try sorting. Both help us locate elements more
quickly.

#607.

17.16

Iterative solution: If you’re careful about what data you really need, you should be able

to solve this in O(n) time and O(1) additional space.
#608.

17.12

Think about it this way: If you had methods called convertLeft and convertRight
(which would convert left and right subtrees to doubly linked lists), could you put those
together to convert the whole tree to a doubly linked list?

#609.

17.19

Part 1: What if you added up all the values in the array? Could you then figure out the
missing number?

#610.

174

#611.

17.26

How long would it take you to figure out the least significant bit of the missing number?
Solution 2: Imagine you are looking up the documents similar to {1,
4, 6} by using a hash
table that maps from a word to documents. The same document ID appears multiple
times when doing this lookup. What does that indicate?

#612.

17.6

Rather than counting the number of twos in each number, think about digit by digit.

That is, count the number of twos in the first digit (for each number), then the number

of twos in the second digit (for each number), then the number of twos in the third digit
(for each number), and so on.
#613.

16.9

Multiply: it’s easy enough to implement multiply using add. But how do you handle
negative numbers?

#614.

16.17

You can solve this inO(N) time and 0O(1) space.

#615.

17.24

Suppose this was just a single array. How could we compute the subarray with the

largest sum? See 16.17 fora solution to this.
#616.

16.22

Option #3: All you actually need is some way of looking upif a cell is white or black (and

of course the position of the ant). Can you just keep a list of all the white cells?

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

687

IV | Hints for Additional Review Problems
#617.

17.17.

One solution is to insert every suffix of the larger string into the trie. For example, if the
word is dogs, the suffixes would be dogs, ogs, gs, and s. How would this help you
solve the problem? What is the runtime here?

#618.

17.22.

A breadth-first search will often be faster than a depth-first search—not necessarily in
the worst case, but in many cases. Why? Can you do something even faster than this?

#619.

17.5

What if you just started from the beginning, counting the number of As and the number

of Bs you've seen so far? (Try making a table of the array and the number of As and Bs
thus far.)

#620.

17.10

Note also that the majority element must be the majority element for some subarray
and that no subarray can have multiple majority elements.

#621.

17.24

Suppose | just wanted you to find the maximum submatrix starting at row r1 and

ending at row r2, how could you most efficiently do this? (See the prior hint.) If | now

wanted you find the maximum subarray from r1 to (r2+2), could you do this efficiently?

#622.

17.9

Since each number is 3, 5, or 7 times a previous value in the list, we could just check all
possible values and pick the next one that hasn't been seen yet. This will result in a lot of
duplicated work. How can we avoid this?

#623.

17.13

Can you just try all possibilities? What might that look like?

#624.

16.26

Multiplication and division are higher priority operations. In an expression like 3*4 +
5*9/2 + 3,the multiplication and division parts need to be grouped together.

#625.

17.14

if you picked an arbitrary element, how long would it take you to figure out the rank of
this element (the number of elements bigger or smaller than it)?

#626.

17.19

Part 2: We're now looking for two missing numbers, which we will call a and b. The
approach from part 1 will tel! us the sum of
a and b, but it won't actually tell us a and b.
What other calculations could we do?

#627.

16.22

Option #3: You could consider keeping a hash set of all the white cells. How will you be
able to print the whole grid, though?

#628.

17.1

The adding step alone would convert 1 + 1->0,1+0->1,0+1->1,0+0->0.How do
you do this without the + sign?

#629.

17.21

What role does the tallest bar in the histogram play?

#630.

16.25

What data structure would be most useful for the lookups? What data structure would

be most useful to know and maintain the order of items?

#631.

16.18

Start with a brute force approach. Can you try all possibilities for a and b?

#632.

16.6

What if you sorted the arrays?

#633.

17.11

Can you just iterate through both arrays with two pointers?
You should be able to do it
in O(CA+B
) time, where A and B are the sizes of the two arrays.

#634.

17.2.

You could build this algorithm recursively by swapping the nth element for any of the
elements before it. What would this look like iteratively?

#635.

16.21.

What if the sum of Ais 11 and the sum of B is 8? Can there be a pair with the right difference? Check that your solution handles this situation appropriately.

688

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

IV | Hints for Additional Review Problems

#636.

17.26

Solution 3: There's an alternative solution. Consider taking all of the words from all of the
documents, throwing them into one giant list, and sorting this list. Assume you could
still know which document each word came from. How could you track the similar pairs?

#637.

16.23

Make a table indicating how each possible sequence of calls to rand5() would map
to the result of rand7(). For example, if you were implementing rand3() with
(rand2() + rand2()) % 3,then the table would look like the below. Analyze this
table. What can it tell you?

#638.

17.8

ist

2nd

Result

@

@

@

@

1

1

1

@

1

1

1

2

This problem asks us to find the longest sequence of pairs you can build such that both
sides of the pair are constantly increasing. What if you needed only one side of the pair
to increase?

#639.

16.15

#640.

17.21

Try first creating an array with the frequency that each item occurs.
Picture the tallest bar, and then the next tallest bar on the left and the next tallest bar on

the right. The water will fill the area between those. Can you calculate that area? What
do you do about the rest?
#641.

17.6

Is there a faster way of calculating how many twos are ina

particular digit across a range

of numbers? Observe that roughly Mp th of any digit should be a 2—but only roughly.
How do you make that more exact?

#642.

17.1

You can do the add step with an XOR.

#643.

16.18

Observe that one of the substrings, either a or b, must start at the beginning of the
string. That cuts down the number of possibilities.

#644.

16.24

What if the array were sorted?

#645.

17.18

Start with a brute force solution.

#646.

17.12

Once you have a basic idea for a recursive algorithm, you might get stuck on this: sometimes your recursive algorithm needs to return the start of the linked list, and some-

times it needs to return the end. There are multiple ways of solving this issue. Brainstorm
some of them.
#647.

17.14

If you picked an arbitrary element, you would, on average, wind up with an element
around the 50th percentile mark (half the elements above it and half the elements
below). What if you did this repeatedly?

#648.

16.9

Divide: If you're trying to compute, where X = %,, remember that a = bx. Can you
find the closest value for x? Remember that this is integer division and x should be an
integer.

#649.

17.19

Part 2: There are a lot of different calculations we could try. For example, we could

multiply all the numbers, but that will only lead us to the product of
a and b.
#650.

17.10

Try this: Given an element, start checking if this is the start of a subarray for which it’s
the majority element. Once it's become “unlikely” (appears less than half the time), start

checking at the next element (the element after the subarray).

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

689

IV | Hints for Additional Review Problems
#651.

17.21

You can calculate the area between the tallest bar overall and the tallest bar on the left
byjust iterating through the histogram and subtracting out any bars in between. You

can do the same thing with the right side. How do you handle the remainder of the
graph?
#652.

17.18

One brute force solution is to take each starting position and move forward until you've
found a subsequence which contains all the target characters.

#653.

16.18

#654.

16.20

Don't forget to handle the possibility that the first character in the pattern is b.
In the real world, we should know that some prefixes/substrings won't work. For
example, consider the number 33835676368. Although 3383 does correspond to
fftf, there are no words that start with fftf. is there a way we can short-circuit in
cases like this?

#655.

17.7

Analternative approach is to think of this as a graph. How would this work?

#656.

17.13

You can think about the choices the recursive algorithm makes in one of two ways: (1)
At each character, should | put a space here? (2) Where should | put the next space? You

can solve both of these recursively.
#657.

17.8

if you needed only one side of the pair to increase, then you would just sort all the
values on that side. Your longest sequence would in fact be all of the pairs (other than
any duplicates, since the longest sequence needs to strictly increase). What does this tell
you about the original problem?

#658.

17.21

You can handle the remainder of the graph byjust repeating this process: find the tallest
bar and the second tallest bar, and subtract out the bars in between.

#659.

17.4

To find the least significant bit of the missing number, note that you know how many
Qs and 1s to expect. For example, if you see three Qs and three 1s in the least significant
bit, then the missing number's least significant bit must be a 1. Think about it: in any
sequence of @s and 1s, you'd get a 9, then a 1, then a Q, then a1, and so on.

#660.

17.9

Rather than checking all values in the list for the next value (by multiplying each by 3,
5, and 7), think about it this way: when you insert a value x into the list, you can “create”
the values 3x, 5x, and 7x to be used later.

#661.

17.14

Think about the previous hint some more, particularly in the context of quicksort.

#662.

17.21

How can you make the process offinding the next tallest bar on each side faster?

#663.

16.18

Be careful with how you analyze the runtime. If you iterate through O(n?) substrings
and each one does an O(n) string comparison, then the total runtime is O(n?).

#664.

17.1

Now focus on the carrying. In what cases will values carry? How do you apply the carry
to the number?

#665.

16.26

Consider thinking about it as, when you get to a multiplication or division sign, jumping

to a separate “process”
to compute the result of this chunk.
#666.

17.8

If you sort the values based on height, then this will tell you the ordering of the final pairs.
The longest sequence must be in this relative order (but not necessarily containing all

of the pairs). You now just need to find the longest increasing subsequence on weight
while keeping the items in the same relative order. This is essentially the same problem

as having an array of integers and trying to find the longest sequence you can build
(without reordering those items).

690

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

IV | Hints for Additional Review Problems
#667.

16.16

Consider the three subarrays: LEFT, MIDDLE, RIGHT. Focus on just this question: Can
you sort middle such that the entire array becomes sorted? How would you check this?

#668.

16.23

Looking at this table again, note that the number of rows will be 5*, where k is the max
number of calls to rand5(). In order to make each value between 0 and 6 have equal

probability, y, th of the rows must map to 0, y, th to 1, and so on. Is this possible?
#669.

17.18

Another way of thinking about the brute force is that we take each starting index and

find the next instance of each element in the target string. The maximum of all these
next instances marks the end ofa subsequence which contains all the target characters.
What is the runtime of this? How can we make it faster?
#670.

16.6

Think about how you would merge two sorted arrays.

#671.

17.5

When the above tables have equal values for the number of As and Bs, the entire
subarray (starting from index 0) has an equal number of As and Bs. How could you use

this table to find qualifying subarrays that don’t start at index 0?
#672.

17.19

Part 2: Adding the numbers together will tell us the result of a

+

b. Multiplying the

numbers together will tell us the result of a * b.Howcan we get the exact values for a
and b?
#673.

16.24

If we sorted the array, we could do repeated binary searches for the complement of
a number. What if, instead, the array is given to us sorted? Could we then solve the

problem in O(N) time and 0(1) space?
#674.

6x9

If you were given the row and column of a water cell, how can you find all connected
spaces?

#675.

17.7

We can treat adding X, Y as synonyms as adding an edge between the X node and the Y

node. How then do we figure out the groups of synonyms?
#676.

17.21

Can you do precomputation to compute the next tallest bar on each side?

#677.

17.13

Will the recursive algorithm hit the same subproblems repeatedly? Can you optimize
with a hash table?

#678.

17.14

What if, when you picked an element, you swapped elements around (as you do in
quicksort) so that the elements below it would be located before the elements above
it? If you did this repeatedly, could you find the smallest one million numbers?

#679.

16.6

Imagine you had the two arrays sorted and you were walking through them. If the
pointer in the first array points to 3 and the pointer in the second array points to 9, what

effect will moving the second pointer have on the difference of the pair?
#680.

17.12

To handle whether your recursive algorithm should return the start or the end of the
linked list, you could try to pass a parameter down that acts as a flag. This won't work

very well, though.
The problem is that when you call convert (current. left), you
want to get the end of Left's linked list. This way you can join the end of the linked list

to current. But, if current is someone else's right subtree, convert(current
)
needs to pass back the start of the linked list (which is actually the start of current.

lef t’s linked list). Really, you need both the start and end of the linked list.
#681.

17.18

Consider the previously explained brute force soiution. A bottleneck is repeatedly
asking for the next instance of a particular character. Is there a way you can optimize

this? You should be able to do this inO(1) time.

CrackingTheCodingIinterview.com | 6th Edition

691

IV| Hints for Additional Review Problems
#682.

17.8

Try a recursive approach that just evaluates all possibilities.

#683.

17.4

Once you've identified that the least significant bit is a 0 (or a 1), you can rule out all the
numbers without 0 as the least significant bit. How is this problem different from the
earlier part?

#684.

17.23

Start with a brute force solution. Can you try the biggest possible square first?

#685.

16.18

Suppose you decide ona

specific value for the “a” part of a pattern. How many possibili-

ties are there for b?
#686.

17.9

When you add x to the list of the first k values, you can add 3x, 5x, and 7x to some new
list. How do you make this as optimal as possible? Would it make sense to keep multiple

queues of values? Do you always need to insert 3x, 5x, and 7x? Or, perhaps sometimes
you need to insert only 7x? You want to avoid seeing the same number twice.

#687.

16.19

Try recursion to count the number of water cells.

#688.

16.8

Consider dividing up a number into sequences of three digits.

#689.

17.19

Part 2: We could do both. If we know thata + b = 87 anda * b = 962, then we
can solve fora and b:a = 13 andb = 74. But this will also result in having to multiply
really large numbers.
The product of all the numbers could be larger than 10'°’. is there
a simpler calculation you can make?

#690.

16.11

Consider building a diving board. What are the choices you make?

#691.

17.18

Can you precompute the next instance of a particular character from each index? Try
using a multi-dimensional array.

#692.

17.1

The carry will happen when you are doing 1 + 1. How do you apply the carry to the
number?

#693.

17.21.

Asanalternative solution, think about it from the perspective of each bar. Each bar will
have water on top of it. How much water will be on top of each bar?

#694.

16.25

Both ahash table and a doubly linked list would be useful. Can you combine the two?

#695.

17.23

The biggest possible square is NxN. So if you try that square first and it works, then
you know that you've found the best square. Otherwise, you can try the next smallest
square.

#696.

17.19

Part 2: Almost any “equation” we can come up with will work here (as long as it’s not

equivalent to a linear sum). It’s just a matter of keeping this sum small.

#697.

16.23

It is not possible to divide 5* evenly by 7. Does this mean that you can’t implement

rand7() with randS()?

#698.

16.26

You can also maintain two stacks, one for the operators and one for the numbers.
You
push a number onto the stack every time you see it. What about the operators? When

do you pop operators from the stack and apply them to the numbers?

#699.

17.8

Another way to think about the problem is this: if you had the longest sequence ending
at each element A[@

] through A[n-1

ending at element A[n-1]?

#700.

692

16.11

Consider a recursive solution.

Cracking the Coding interview, 6th Edition

], could you use that to find the longest sequence

IV | Hints for Additional Review Problems

#701.

17.12

Many people get stuck at this point and aren't sure what to do. Sometimes they need
the start of the linked list, and sometimes they need the end. A given node doesn't
necessarily know what to return on its convert call. Sometimes the simple solution is
easiest: always return both. What are some ways you could do this?

#702.

17.19

Part 2: Try a sum of squares of the values.

#703.

16.20

A trie might help us short-circuit. What if you stored the whole list of words in the trie?

#704.

W777

Each connected subgraph represents a group of synonyms. To find each group, we can
do repeated breadth-first (or depth-first) searches.

#705.

ies

#706.

16.19

Describe the runtime of the brute force solution.
How can you make sure that you're not revisiting the same cells? Think about how
breadth-first search or depth-first search on a graph works.

#707.

16.7

Whena

>

b,thena

#708.

16.16

In order to be able to sort MIDDLE and have the whole array become sorted, you need

MAX(LEFT)

<=

-

b > @.Canyou getthe
sign bit ofa -

MIN(MIDDLE

and

RIGHT) andMAX(LEFT

b?

and

MIDDLE)

<=

MIN(RIGHT).
#709.

17.20

What if you used a heap? Or two heaps?

#710.

16.4

if you were calling hasWon multiple times, how might your solution change?

#711.

16.5

Each zeroinn!

#712.

17.1

You can use an AND operation to compute the carry. What do you do with it?

#713.

17.5

Suppose, in this table, index i has count(A,

corresponds to n being divisible by a factor of 10. What does that mean?

@->i)

= 3andcount(B,

@->i)

=

7. This means that there are four more Bs than As. If you find a later spot j with the same

difference (count(B,

@->j)

-

count(A,

@->j)), then this indicates a subarray

with an equal number of As and Bs.
#714.

17.23

Can you do preprocessing to optimize this solution?

#715.

16.11

Once you have a recursive algorithm, think about the runtime. Can you make this faster?
How?

#716.

16.1

Let dif
¥ be the difference between a and b. Can you use diff in some way? Then can
you get rid of this temporary variable?

#717.

T709

Part 2: You might need the quadratic formula. It’s not a big deal if you don't remember
it. Most people won't. Remember that there is such a thing as good enough.

#718.

16.18

Since the value of a determines the value of b (and vice versa) and either a or b must

start at the beginning of the value, you should have only O(n) possibilities for how to
split up the pattern.
#719.

17.12

You could return both the start and end of a linked list in multiple ways. You could
return a two-element array. You could define a new data structure to hold the start and

end. You could re-use the BiNode data structure. If you're working in a language that
supports this (like Python), you could just return multiple values. You could solve the

problem as a circular linked list, with the start’s previous pointer pointing to the end
(and then break the circular list in a wrapper method). Explore these solutions. Which
one do you like most and why?

CrackingTheCodingInterview.com | 6th Edition

693

IV | Hints for Additional Review Problems
#720.

16.23

Youcan implement rand7() with randS(), you just can't do it deterministically (such
that you know it will definitely terminate after a certain number of calls). Given this,
write a solution that works,

#721.

17.23,

You should be able to do this in O(N*) time, where N is the length of one dimension of
the square.

#722.

16.11

Consider memoization to optimize the runtime. Think carefully about what exactly you
cache. What is the runtime? The runtime is closely related to the max size of the table.

#723.

16.19

You should have an algorithm that’s O(N?) on an NXN matrix. If your algorithm isn't,
consider if you‘ve miscomputed the runtime or if your algorithm is suboptimal.

#724.

17.1

You might need to do the add/carry operation more than once. Adding carry to sum
might cause new values to carry.

#725.

17.18

Once you have the precomputation solution figured out, think about how you can
reduce the space complexity. You should be able to get it down to O(SB) time and
O(B) space (where B is the size of the larger array and S is the size of the smaller array).

#726.

16.20

We're probably going to run this algorithm many times. If we did more preprocessing, is
there a way we could optimize this?

#727.

16.18

You should be able to have an O(n?) algorithm.

#728.

16.7

Have you considered how to handle integer overflow ina -

#729.

16.5

Each factor of 10 inn! means n! is divisible by 5 and 2.

#730.

16.15

b?

For ease and clarity in implementation, you might want to use other methods and
classes.

#731.

17.18

Another way to think about it is this: Imagine you had a list of the indices where each
item appeared. Could you find the first possible subsequence with all the elements?
Could you find the second?

#732.

16.4

If you were designing this for an NXN board, how might your solution change?

#733.

16.5

Can you count the number of factors of 5 and 2? Do you need to count both?

#734.

17.21.

Each bar will have water on top of it that matches the minimum of the tallest bar on the

left and the tallest bar on the right. That is, water_on_top[i]

=

min(tallest_

bar(@->1), tallest_bar(i, n)).
#735.

16.16

Can you expand the middle until the earlier condition is met?

#736.

17.23

When you're checking to see if a particular square is valid (all black borders), you check

how many black pixels are above (or below) a coordinate and to the left (or right) of this
coordinate. Can you precompute the number of black pixels above and to the left of a
given cell?

#737.

16.1

You could also try using XOR.

#738.

17.22

What if you did a breadth-first search starting from both the source word and the destination word?

#739.

17.13

In real life, we would know that some paths will not lead to a word. For example, there
are no words that start with hel lothisism. Can we terminate early when going down
a path that we know won't work?

694

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

IV | Hints forAdditional Review Problems
#740.

16.11

There's an alternate, clever (and very fast) solution. You can actually do this in linear time
without recursion. How?

#741.

17.18

Consider using a heap.

#742.

17.21

You should be able to solve this inO(N) time andO(N) space.

#743.

17.17

Alternatively, you could insert each of the smaller strings into the trie. How would this
help you solve the problem? What is the runtime?

#744.

16.20

With preprocessing, we can actually get the lookup time down to0(1).

#745.

16.5

Have you considered that 25 actually accounts for two factors of 5?

#746.

16.16

You should be able to solve this in O(N) time.

#747.

16.11

Think about it this way. You are picking K planks and there are two different types. All
choices with 10 of the first type and 4 of the second type will have the same sum. Can
you just iterate through all possible choices?

#748.

17.25

Can you use a trie to terminate early when a rectangle looks invalid?

#749.

17.13

For early termination, try a trie.

Cracking heCodinginterview.com | 6th Edition

695

XIV
About the Author

Gayle Laakmann McDowell has a strong background in software development with extensive experience on both sides of
the hiring table.

She has worked for Microsoft, Apple, and Google as a software
engineer. She spent three years at Google, where she was one
of the top interviewers and served on the hiring committee.
She interviewed hundreds of candidates in the U.S. and abroad,
assessed thousands of candidate interview packets for the hiring
committee, and reviewed many more resumes.
As a candidate, she interviewed with—and received offers from—

twelve tech companies, including Microsoft, Google, Amazon,
IBM, and Apple.
Gayle founded CareerCup to enable candidates to perform at
their best during these challenging interviews. CareerCup.com

offers a database of thousands of interview questions from major
companies and a forum for interview advice.

In addition to Cracking the Coding Interview, Gayle has written
other two books:

+

Cracking the Tech Career: Insider Advice on Landing a Job at Google, Microsoft, Apple, or Any Top Tech
Company provides a broader look at the interview process for major tech companies. It offers insight

into how anyone, from college freshmen to marketing professionals, can position themselves for a
career at one of these companies.

*

Cracking the PM Interview: How to Land a Product Manager Job in Technology focuses on product

management roles at startups and big tech companies. It offers strategies to break into these roles and
teaches job seekers how to prepare for PM interviews.

Through her role with CareerCup, she consults with tech companies on their hiring process, leads technical
interview training workshops, and coaches engineers at startups for acquisition interviews.

She holds bachelor’s degree and master’s degrees in computer science from the University of Pennsylvania

and an MBA from the Wharton School.
She lives in Palo Alto, California, with her husband, two sons, dog, and computer science books. She still
codes daily.

696

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition

Amazon.com's #1 Best-Selling Interview Book

CRACKING «ec CODING INTERVIEW
| am not a recruiter. | am a software engineer. And as
such, | know what it’s like to be asked to whip up brilliant
algorithms on the spot and then write flawless code ona
whiteboard. I've been through this—as a candidate and
as an interviewer.

Cracking the Coding Interview, 6th Edition is here to help
you through this process, teaching you what you need to
know and enabling you to perform at your very best. I've
coached

and _

interviewed

hundreds

of

software

engineers. The result is this book.
Learn how to uncover the hints and hidden details in a
question, discover how to break down a problem into
manageable chunks, develop techniques to unstick
yourself when stuck, learn (or re-learn) core computer
science concepts, and
questions and solutions.

practice

on

189

interview

These interview questions are real; they are not pulled
out of computer science textbooks. They reflect what's
truly being asked at the top companies, so that you can
be as prepared as possible.
WHAT'S INSIDE?

*

189 programming interview questions, ranging from
the basics to the trickiest algorithm problems.

GAYLE LAAKMANN
MCDOWELL
Gayle Laakmann McDowell is
the founder and
CEO
of
CareerCup and the author of
Cracking the PM Interview and
Cracking the Tech Career.

A walk-through of how to derive each solution, so
that you can learn how to get there yourself.

Gayle has a strong background in
software development, having

Hints on how to solve each of the 189 questions, just

worked as a software engineer

like what you would get in a real interview.

at Google, Microsoft, and Apple.
At

Five proven strategies to tackle algorithm questions,
so that you can solve questions you haven't seen.

Google,

she _ interviewed

hundreds of software engineers
and

evaluated

thousands

hiring packets as
Extensive coverage of essential topics, such as big O
time. data structures, and core algorithms.

of

part of the

hiring committee. She holds a
BSE.

and

science

MS.E.

from

in computer

the

Unwersity

of

A “behind the scenes” look at how top companies,

Pennsylvania and an MBA from

like Google and Facebook, hire developers.

the Wharton School.

Techniques to prepare for and ace the “soft” side of

She

the interview: behavioral questions.

companies

For interviewers and companies: details on what

to prepare them fOr acquisition

makes a good interview question and hiring process.

interviews.

now

consults
to

with

tech

improve

their

hiring process and with startups

